 not come: we shall therefore
have Mr. S. again. Mr. Paget acts like an unsteady man. Dr. Hant,
however, gives him a very good character; what is wrong is to be imputed
to the lady. I dare say the house likes female government.

I have a nice long black and red letter from Charles, but not
communicating much that I did not know.

There is some chance of a good ball next week, as far as females go.
Lady Bridges may perhaps be there with some Knatchbulls. Mrs. Harrison
perhaps, with Miss Oxenden and the Miss Papillons; and if Mrs. Harrison,
then Lady Fagg will come.

The shades of evening are descending, and I resume my interesting
narrative. Sir Brook and my brother came back about four, and Sir Brook
almost immediately set forward again to Goodnestone. We are to have
Edwd. B. to-morrow, to pay us another Sunday's visit,--the last, for
more reasons than one; they all come home on the same day that we go.
The Deedes do not come till Tuesday; Sophia is to be the comer. She is a
disputable beauty that I want much to see. Lady Eliz. Hatton and
Annamaria called here this morning. Yes, they called; but I do not think
I can say anything more about them. They came, and they sat, and they
went.

_Sunday._--Dearest Henry! What a turn he has for being ill, and what a
thing bile is! This attack has probably been brought on in part by his
previous confinement and anxiety; but, however it came, I hope it is
going fast, and that you will be able to send a very good account of him
on Tuesday. As I hear on Wednesday, of course I shall not expect to hear
again on Friday. Perhaps a letter to Wrotham would not have an ill
effect.

We are to be off on Saturday before the post comes in, as Edward takes
his own horses all the way. He talks of nine o'clock. We shall bait at
Lenham.

Excellent sweetness of you to send me such a nice long letter; it made
its appearance, with one from my mother, soon after I and my impatient
feelings walked in. How glad I am that I did what I did! I was only
afraid that you might think the offer superfluous, but you have set my
heart at ease. Tell Henry that I will stay with him, let it be ever so
disagreeable to him.

Oh, dear me! I have not time on paper for half that I want to say. There
have been two letters from Oxford,--one from George yesterday. They got
there very safely,--Edwd. two hours behind the coach, having lost his
way in leaving London. George writes cheerfully and quietly; hopes to
have Utterson's rooms soon; went to lecture on Wednesday, states some of
his expenses, and concludes with saying, "I am afraid I shall be poor."
I am glad he thinks about it so soon. I believe there is no private
tutor yet chosen, but my brother is to hear from Edwd. on the subject
shortly.

You, and Mrs. H., and Catherine, and Alethea going about together in
Henry's carriage seeing sights--I am not used to the idea of it yet. All
that you are to see of Streatham, seen already! Your Streatham and my
Bookham may go hang. The prospect of being taken down to Chawton by
Henry perfects the plan to me. I was in hopes of your seeing some
illuminations, and you have seen them. "I thought you would come, and
you did come." I am sorry he is not to come from the Baltic sooner. Poor
Mary!

My brother has a letter from Louisa to-day of an unwelcome nature; they
are to spend the winter at Bath. It was just decided on. Dr. Parry
wished it, not from thinking the water necessary to Lady B., but that he
might be better able to judge how far his treatment of her, which is
totally different from anything she had been used to, is right; and I
suppose he will not mind having a few more of her Ladyship's guineas.
His system is a lowering one. He took twelve ounces of blood from her
when the gout appeared, and forbids wine, etc. Hitherto the plan agrees
with her. She is very well satisfied to stay, but it is a sore
disappointment to Louisa and Fanny.

The H. Bridges leave them on Tuesday, and they mean to move into a
smaller house; you may guess how Edward feels. There can be no doubt of
his going to Bath now; I should not wonder if he brought Fanny Cage back
with him.

You shall hear from me once more, some day or other.

                                  Yours very affectionately,      J. A.

We do not like Mr. Hampson's scheme.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    10 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London.




LIII.


                            HENRIETTA ST., Wednesday (March 2, 1814).

We had altogether a very good journey, and everything at Cobham was
comfortable. I could not pay Mr. Harrington! That was the only alas! of
the business. I shall therefore return his bill, and my mother's 2_l._,
that you may try your luck. We did not begin reading till Bentley Green.
Henry's approbation is hitherto even equal to my wishes. He says it is
different from the other two, but does not appear to think it at all
inferior. He has only married Mrs. R.[28] I am afraid he has gone through
the most entertaining part. He took to Lady B. and Mrs. N.[29] most
kindly, and gives great praise to the drawing of the characters. He
understands them all, likes Fanny, and, I think, fo