ere they are, safe and well, just like their own nice selves,
Fanny looking as neat and white this morning as possible, and dear
Charles all affectionate, placid, quiet, cheerful good-humor. They are
both looking very well, but poor little Cassy is grown extremely thin,
and looks poorly. I hope a week's country air and exercise may do her
good. I am sorry to say it can be but a week. The baby does not appear
so large in proportion as she was, nor quite so pretty, but I have seen
very little of her. Cassy was too tired and bewildered just at first to
seem to know anybody. We met them in the hall--the women and girl part
of us--but before we reached the library she kissed me very
affectionately, and has since seemed to recollect me in the same way.

It was quite an evening of confusion, as you may suppose. At first we
were all walking about from one part of the house to the other; then
came a fresh dinner in the breakfast-room for Charles and his wife,
which Fanny and I attended; then we moved into the library, were joined
by the dining-room people, were introduced, and so forth; and then we
had tea and coffee, which was not over till past ten. Billiards again
drew all the odd ones away; and Edward, Charles, the two Fannies, and I
sat snugly talking. I shall be glad to have our numbers a little
reduced, and by the time you receive this we shall be only a family,
though a large family, party. Mr. Lushington goes to-morrow.

Now I must speak of him, and I like him very much. I am sure he is
clever, and a man of taste. He got a volume of Milton last night, and
spoke of it with warmth. He is quite an M. P., very smiling, with an
exceeding good address and readiness of language. I am rather in love
with him. I dare say he is ambitious and insincere. He puts me in mind
of Mr. Dundas. He has a wide smiling mouth, and very good teeth, and
something the same complexion and nose. He is a much shorter man, with
Martha's leave. Does Martha never hear from Mrs. Craven? Is Mrs. Craven
never at home?

We breakfasted in the dining-room to-day, and are now all pretty well
dispersed and quiet. Charles and George are gone out shooting together,
to Winnigates and Seaton Wood. I asked on purpose to tell Henry. Mr.
Lushington and Edwd. are gone some other way. I wish Charles may kill
something; but this high wind is against their sport.

Lady Williams is living at the Rose at Sittingbourne; they called upon
her yesterday; she cannot live at Sheerness, and as soon as she gets to
Sittingbourne is quite well. In return for all your matches, I announce
that her brother William is going to marry a Miss Austen, of a Wiltshire
family, who say they are related to us.

I talk to Cassy about Chawton; she remembers much, but does not
volunteer on the subject. Poor little love! I wish she were not so very
Palmery, but it seems stronger than ever. I never knew a wife's family
features have such undue influence.

Papa and mamma have not yet made up their mind as to parting with her or
not; the chief, indeed the only, difficulty with mamma is a very
reasonable one, the child's being very unwilling to leave them. When it
was mentioned to her she did not like the idea of it at all. At the same
time she has been suffering so much lately from sea-sickness that her
mamma cannot bear to have her much on board this winter. Charles is
less inclined to part with her. I do not know how it will end, or what
is to determine it. He desires his best love to you, and has not written
because he has not been able to decide. They are both very sensible of
your kindness on the occasion.

I have made Charles furnish me with something to say about young
Kendall. He is going on very well. When he first joined the "Namur," my
brother did not find him forward enough to be what they call put in the
office, and therefore placed him under the schoolmaster; but he is very
much improved, and goes into the office now every afternoon, still
attending school in the morning.

This cold weather comes very fortunately for Edward's nerves, with such
a house full; it suits him exactly; he is all alive and cheerful. Poor
James, on the contrary, must be running his toes into the fire. I find
that Mary Jane Fowle was very near returning with her brother and paying
them a visit on board. I forget exactly what hindered her; I believe the
Cheltenham scheme. I am glad something did. They are to go to Cheltenham
on Monday se'nnight. I don't vouch for their going, you know; it only
comes from one of the family.

Now I think I have written you a good-sized letter, and may deserve
whatever I can get in reply. Infinities of love. I must distinguish
that of Fanny, senior, who particularly desires to be remembered to you
all.

                                  Yours very affectionately,
                                                          J. AUSTEN.

  FAVERSHAM, Oct. 15, 1813.
    Miss AUSTEN, Chawton, Alton, Hants.
      Per S. R. LUSHINGTON.

FOOTNOTE:

[26] Mrs. Charles Austen, _née_ Fanny Palmer.




L.


                                           GODMERSHAM PARK, Oct. 18.

MY DEAR AUNT CASSANDRA,--I am