 What can it be?  Can they have
quarrelled?  Why else should he have shewn such unwillingness to accept
your invitation here?"--

"It was not inclination that he wanted, Elinor; I could plainly see
THAT.  He had not the power of accepting it.  I have thought it all
over I assure you, and I can perfectly account for every thing that at
first seemed strange to me as well as to you."

"Can you, indeed!"

"Yes. I have explained it to myself in the most satisfactory way;--but
you, Elinor, who love to doubt where you can--it will not satisfy YOU,
I know; but you shall not talk ME out of my trust in it.  I am
persuaded that Mrs. Smith suspects his regard for Marianne, disapproves
of it, (perhaps because she has other views for him,) and on that
account is eager to get him away;--and that the business which she
sends him off to transact is invented as an excuse to dismiss him.
This is what I believe to have happened.  He is, moreover, aware that
she DOES disapprove the connection, he dares not therefore at present
confess to her his engagement with Marianne, and he feels himself
obliged, from his dependent situation, to give into her schemes, and
absent himself from Devonshire for a while.  You will tell me, I know,
that this may or may NOT have happened; but I will listen to no cavil,
unless you can point out any other method of understanding the affair
as satisfactory at this.  And now, Elinor, what have you to say?"

"Nothing, for you have anticipated my answer."

"Then you would have told me, that it might or might not have happened.
Oh, Elinor, how incomprehensible are your feelings!  You had rather
take evil upon credit than good.  You had rather look out for misery
for Marianne, and guilt for poor Willoughby, than an apology for the
latter.  You are resolved to think him blameable, because he took leave
of us with less affection than his usual behaviour has shewn.  And is
no allowance to be made for inadvertence, or for spirits depressed by
recent disappointment?  Are no probabilities to be accepted, merely
because they are not certainties?  Is nothing due to the man whom we
have all such reason to love, and no reason in the world to think ill
of?  To the possibility of motives unanswerable in themselves, though
unavoidably secret for a while?  And, after all, what is it you suspect
him of?"

"I can hardly tell myself.  But suspicion of something unpleasant is
the inevitable consequence of such an alteration as we just witnessed
in him.  There is great truth, however, in what you have now urged of
the allowances which ought to be made for him, and it is my wish to be
candid in my judgment of every body.  Willoughby may undoubtedly have
very sufficient reasons for his conduct, and I will hope that he has.
But it would have been more like Willoughby to acknowledge them at
once.  Secrecy may be advisable; but still I cannot help wondering at
its being practiced by him."

"Do not blame him, however, for departing from his character, where the
deviation is necessary.  But you really do admit the justice of what I
have said in his defence?--I am happy--and he is acquitted."

"Not entirely.  It may be proper to conceal their engagement (if they
ARE engaged) from Mrs. Smith--and if that is the case, it must be
highly expedient for Willoughby to be but little in Devonshire at
present.  But this is no excuse for their concealing it from us."

"Concealing it from us! my dear child, do you accuse Willoughby and
Marianne of concealment? This is strange indeed, when your eyes have
been reproaching them every day for incautiousness."

"I want no proof of their affection," said Elinor; "but of their
engagement I do."

"I am perfectly satisfied of both."

"Yet not a syllable has been said to you on the subject, by either of
them."

"I have not wanted syllables where actions have spoken so plainly.  Has
not his behaviour to Marianne and to all of us, for at least the last
fortnight, declared that he loved and considered her as his future
wife, and that he felt for us the attachment of the nearest relation?
Have we not perfectly understood each other?  Has not my consent been
daily asked by his looks, his manner, his attentive and affectionate
respect?  My Elinor, is it possible to doubt their engagement?  How
could such a thought occur to you?  How is it to be supposed that
Willoughby, persuaded as he must be of your sister's love, should leave
her, and leave her perhaps for months, without telling her of his
affection;--that they should part without a mutual exchange of
confidence?"

"I confess," replied Elinor, "that every circumstance except ONE is in
favour of their engagement; but that ONE is the total silence of both
on the subject, and with me it almost outweighs every other."

"How strange this is!  You must think wretchedly indeed of Willoughby,
if, after all that has openly passed between them, you can doubt the
nature of the terms on which they are together.  Has he been acting a
part in his behaviour to your sister all this time?  Do you suppose him
really indifferent to her?"

"No, I cannot think that.  He must and does love her I