weaned Julia.

I have also heard lately from your Aunt Harriot, and cannot understand
their plans in parting with Miss S., whom she seems very much to value
now that Harriot and Eleanor are both of an age for a governess to be so
useful to, especially as, when Caroline was sent to school some years,
Miss Bell was still retained, though the others even then were nursery
children. They have some good reason, I dare say, though I cannot
penetrate it; and till I know what it is I shall invent a bad one, and
amuse myself with accounting for the difference of measures by supposing
Miss S. to be a superior sort of woman, who has never stooped to
recommend herself to the master of the family by flattery, as Miss Bell
did.

I will answer your kind questions more than you expect. "Miss Catherine"
is put upon the shelf for the present, and I do not know that she will
ever come out; but I have a something ready for publication, which may,
perhaps, appear about a twelvemonth hence. It is short,--about the
length of "Catherine." This is for yourself alone. Neither Mr. Salusbury
nor Mr. Wildman is to know of it.

I am got tolerably well again, quite equal to walking about and enjoying
the air, and by sitting down and resting a good while between my walks I
get exercise enough. I have a scheme, however, for accomplishing more,
as the weather grows spring-like. I mean to take to riding the donkey;
it will be more independent and less troublesome than the use of the
carriage, and I shall be able to go about with Aunt Cassandra in her
walks to Alton and Wyards.

I hope you will think Wm. looking well; he was bilious the other day,
and At. Cass. supplied him with a dose at his own request. I am sure you
would have approved it. Wm. and I are the best of friends. I love him
very much. Everything is so natural about him,--his affections, his
manners, and his drollery. He entertains and interests us extremely.

Mat. Hammond and A. M. Shaw are people whom I cannot care for in
themselves, but I enter into their situation, and am glad they are so
happy. If I were the Duchess of Richmond, I should be very miserable
about my son's choice.

Our fears increase for poor little Harriot; the latest account is that
Sir Ev. Home is confirmed in his opinion of there being water on the
brain. I hope Heaven, in its mercy, will take her soon. Her poor father
will be quite worn out by his feelings for her; he cannot spare Cassy at
present, she is an occupation and a comfort to him.




LXXIV.


                                           CHAWTON, Sunday (March 23).

I AM very much obliged to you, my dearest Fanny, for sending me Mr. W.'s
conversation; I had great amusement in reading it, and I hope I am not
affronted, and do not think the worse of him for having a brain so very
different from mine; but my strongest sensation of all is astonishment
at your being able to press him on the subject so perseveringly; and I
agree with your papa that it was not fair. When he knows the truth, he
will be uncomfortable.

You are the oddest creature! Nervous enough in some respects, but in
others perfectly without nerves! Quite unrepulsable, hardened, and
impudent. Do not oblige him to read any more. Have mercy on him, tell
him the truth, and make him an apology. He and I should not in the least
agree, of course, in our ideas of novels and heroines. Pictures of
perfection, as you know, make me sick and wicked; but there is some very
good sense in what he says, and I particularly respect him for wishing
to think well of all young ladies; it shows an amiable and a delicate
mind. And he deserves better treatment than to be obliged to read any
more of my works.

Do not be surprised at finding Uncle Henry acquainted with my having
another ready for publication. I could not say No when he asked me, but
he knows nothing more of it. You will not like it, so you need not be
impatient. You may perhaps like the heroine, as she is almost too good
for me.

Many thanks for your kind care for my health; I certainly have not been
well for many weeks, and about a week ago I was very poorly. I have had
a good deal of fever at times, and indifferent nights; but I am
considerably better now, and am recovering my looks a little, which have
been bad enough,--black and white, and every wrong color. I must not
depend upon being ever very blooming again. Sickness is a dangerous
indulgence at my time of life. Thank you for everything you tell me. I
do not feel worthy of it by anything that I can say in return, but I
assure you my pleasure in your letters is quite as great as ever, and I
am interested and amused just as you could wish me. If there is a Miss
_Marsden_, I perceive whom she will marry.

_Evening._--I was languid and dull and very bad company when I wrote the
above; I am better now, to my own feelings at least, and wish I may be
more agreeable. We are going to have rain, and after that very pleasant
genial weather, which will exactly do for me, as my saddle will then be
completed, and air and exercise is what I want. Indeed, I shall be very
glad when the event at Scarlets is over, the expect