ered my father at a very early period of my Life, I
have since murdered my Mother, and I am now going to murder my Sister. I
have changed my religion so often that at present I have not an idea of
any left. I have been a perjured witness in every public tryal for these
last twelve years; and I have forged my own Will. In short there is
scarcely a crime that I have not committed--But I am now going to
reform. Colonel Martin of the Horse guards has paid his Addresses to me,
and we are to be married in a few days. As there is something singular
in our Courtship, I will give you an account of it. Colonel Martin is
the second son of the late Sir John Martin who died immensely rich, but
bequeathing only one hundred thousand pound apeice to his three younger
Children, left the bulk of his fortune, about eight Million to the
present Sir Thomas. Upon his small pittance the Colonel lived tolerably
contented for nearly four months when he took it into his head to
determine on getting the whole of his eldest Brother's Estate. A new
will was forged and the Colonel produced it in Court--but nobody would
swear to it's being the right will except himself, and he had sworn so
much that Nobody beleived him. At that moment I happened to be passing
by the door of the Court, and was beckoned in by the Judge who told the
Colonel that I was a Lady ready to witness anything for the cause of
Justice, and advised him to apply to me. In short the Affair was soon
adjusted. The Colonel and I swore to its' being the right will, and Sir
Thomas has been obliged to resign all his illgotten wealth. The Colonel
in gratitude waited on me the next day with an offer of his hand--. I am
now going to murder my Sister. Yours Ever, Anna Parker.




A TOUR THROUGH WALES--in a LETTER from a YOUNG LADY--

My Dear Clara I have been so long on the ramble that I have not till now
had it in my power to thank you for your Letter--. We left our dear home
on last Monday month; and proceeded on our tour through Wales, which is
a principality contiguous to England and gives the title to the Prince
of Wales. We travelled on horseback by preference. My Mother rode upon
our little poney and Fanny and I walked by her side or rather ran, for
my Mother is so fond of riding fast that she galloped all the way. You
may be sure that we were in a fine perspiration when we came to our
place of resting. Fanny has taken a great many Drawings of the Country,
which are very beautiful, tho' perhaps not such exact resemblances
as might be wished, from their being taken as she ran along. It would
astonish you to see all the Shoes we wore out in our Tour. We determined
to take a good Stock with us and therefore each took a pair of our own
besides those we set off in. However we were obliged to have them both
capped and heelpeiced at Carmarthen, and at last when they were quite
gone, Mama was so kind as to lend us a pair of blue Sattin Slippers, of
which we each took one and hopped home from Hereford delightfully---I am
your ever affectionate Elizabeth Johnson.





A TALE.

A Gentleman whose family name I shall conceal, bought a small Cottage in
Pembrokeshire about two years ago. This daring Action was suggested to
him by his elder Brother who promised to furnish two rooms and a Closet
for him, provided he would take a small house near the borders of an
extensive Forest, and about three Miles from the Sea. Wilhelminus gladly
accepted the offer and continued for some time searching after such a
retreat when he was one morning agreably releived from his suspence by
reading this advertisement in a Newspaper.

TO BE LETT A Neat Cottage on the borders of an extensive forest and
about three Miles from the Sea. It is ready furnished except two rooms
and a Closet.

The delighted Wilhelminus posted away immediately to his brother, and
shewed him the advertisement. Robertus congratulated him and sent him
in his Carriage to take possession of the Cottage. After travelling for
three days and six nights without stopping, they arrived at the Forest
and following a track which led by it's side down a steep Hill over
which ten Rivulets meandered, they reached the Cottage in half an hour.
Wilhelminus alighted, and after knocking for some time without receiving
any answer or hearing any one stir within, he opened the door which
was fastened only by a wooden latch and entered a small room, which he
immediately perceived to be one of the two that were unfurnished--From
thence he proceeded into a Closet equally bare. A pair of stairs that
went out of it led him into a room above, no less destitute, and these
apartments he found composed the whole of the House. He was by no means
displeased with this discovery, as he had the comfort of reflecting that
he should not be obliged to lay out anything on furniture himself--. He
returned immediately to his Brother, who took him the next day to every
Shop in Town, and bought what ever was requisite to furnish the two
rooms and the Closet, In a few days everything was completed, and
Wilhelminus returned to take possession of his Cottage. Robertus
accompanied him, with his Lady 