d is just what she
always was. John is at Sandling. You may fancy our dinner-party
therefore; Fanny, of course, belonging to it, and little Edward, for
that day. He was almost too happy, his happiness at least made him too
talkative.

It has struck ten; I must go to breakfast.

Since breakfast I have had a _tête-à-tête_ with Edward in his room; he
wanted to know James's plans and mine, and from what his own now are I
think it already nearly certain that I shall return when they do, though
not with them. Edward will be going about the same time to Alton, where
he has business with Mr. Trimmer, and where he means his son should join
him; and I shall probably be his companion to that place, and get on
afterwards somehow or other.

I should have preferred a rather longer stay here certainly, but there
is no prospect of any later conveyance for me, as he does not mean to
accompany Edward on his return to Winchester, from a very natural
unwillingness to leave Elizabeth at that time. I shall at any rate be
glad not to be obliged to be an incumbrance on those who have brought me
here, for, as James has no horse, I must feel in their carriage that I
am taking his place. We were rather crowded yesterday, though it does
not become me to say so, as I and my boa were of the party, and it is
not to be supposed but that a child of three years of age was fidgety.

I need scarcely beg you to keep all this to yourself, lest it should get
round by Anna's means. She is very kindly inquired after by her friends
here, who all regret her not coming with her father and mother.

I left Henry, I hope, free from his tiresome complaint, in other
respects well, and thinking with great pleasure of Cheltenham and
Stoneleigh.

The brewery scheme is quite at an end: at a meeting of the subscribers
last week it was by general, and I believe very hearty, consent
dissolved.

The country is very beautiful. I saw as much as ever to admire in my
yesterday's journey. . . .

FOOTNOTE:

[5] Mrs. Edward Austen.




XXV.


                                    CASTLE SQUARE, October 13.

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I have received your letter, and with most
melancholy anxiety was it expected, for the sad news[6] reached us last
night, but without any particulars. It came in a short letter to Martha
from her sister, begun at Steventon and finished in Winchester.

We have felt, we do feel, for you all, as you will not need to be
told,--for you, for Fanny, for Henry, for Lady Bridges, and for dearest
Edward, whose loss and whose sufferings seem to make those of every
other person nothing. God be praised that you can say what you do of
him: that he has a religious mind to bear him up, and a disposition that
will gradually lead him to comfort.

My dear, dear Fanny, I am so thankful that she has you with her! You
will be everything to her; you will give her all the consolation that
human aid can give. May the Almighty sustain you all, and keep you, my
dearest Cassandra, well; but for the present I dare say you are equal to
everything.

You will know that the poor boys are at Steventon. Perhaps it is best
for them, as they will have more means of exercise and amusement there
than they could have with us, but I own myself disappointed by the
arrangement. I should have loved to have them with me at such a time. I
shall write to Edward by this post.

We shall, of course, hear from you again very soon, and as often as you
can write. We will write as you desire, and I shall add Bookham.
Hamstall, I suppose, you write to yourselves, as you do not mention it.

What a comfort that Mrs. Deedes is saved from present misery and alarm!
But it will fall heavy upon poor Harriot; and as for Lady B., but that
her fortitude does seem truly great, I should fear the effect of such a
blow, and so unlooked for. I long to hear more of you all. Of Henry's
anguish I think with grief and solicitude; but he will exert himself to
be of use and comfort.

With what true sympathy our feelings are shared by Martha you need not
be told; she is the friend and sister under every circumstance.

We need not enter into a panegyric on the departed, but it is sweet to
think of her great worth, of her solid principles, of her true devotion,
her excellence in every relation of life. It is also consolatory to
reflect on the shortness of the sufferings which led her from this world
to a better.

Farewell for the present, my dearest sister. Tell Edward that we feel
for him and pray for him.

                                    Yours affectionately,
                                                      J. AUSTEN.

I will write to Catherine.

Perhaps you can give me some directions about mourning.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.

FOOTNOTE:

[6] The death of Mrs. Edward Austen.




XXVI.


                          CASTLE SQUARE, Saturday night (October 15).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your accounts make us as comfortable as we can
expect to be at such a time. Edward's loss is terrible, and must be felt
as such, and these are too early days indeed to think of moderation in
grief, either in 