She will made good connections there, as the
girls are all of the best families. The price is immense, and much
beyond what I can ever attempt to pay.

Adieu, I will send you a line as soon as I arrive in town.

Yours ever,

S. VERNON.




III


MRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY


Churchhill.


My dear Mother,--I am very sorry to tell you that it will not be in our
power to keep our promise of spending our Christmas with you; and we are
prevented that happiness by a circumstance which is not likely to
make us any amends. Lady Susan, in a letter to her brother-in-law, has
declared her intention of visiting us almost immediately; and as such
a visit is in all probability merely an affair of convenience, it is
impossible to conjecture its length. I was by no means prepared for such
an event, nor can I now account for her ladyship's conduct; Langford
appeared so exactly the place for her in every respect, as well from
the elegant and expensive style of living there, as from her particular
attachment to Mr. Mainwaring, that I was very far from expecting so
speedy a distinction, though I always imagined from her increasing
friendship for us since her husband's death that we should, at some
future period, be obliged to receive her. Mr. Vernon, I think, was a
great deal too kind to her when he was in Staffordshire; her behaviour
to him, independent of her general character, has been so inexcusably
artful and ungenerous since our marriage was first in agitation that no
one less amiable and mild than himself could have overlooked it all;
and though, as his brother's widow, and in narrow circumstances, it was
proper to render her pecuniary assistance, I cannot help thinking
his pressing invitation to her to visit us at Churchhill perfectly
unnecessary. Disposed, however, as he always is to think the best of
everyone, her display of grief, and professions of regret, and general
resolutions of prudence, were sufficient to soften his heart and make
him really confide in her sincerity; but, as for myself, I am still
unconvinced, and plausibly as her ladyship has now written, I cannot
make up my mind till I better understand her real meaning in coming to
us. You may guess, therefore, my dear madam, with what feelings I look
forward to her arrival. She will have occasion for all those attractive
powers for which she is celebrated to gain any share of my regard; and
I shall certainly endeavour to guard myself against their influence,
if not accompanied by something more substantial. She expresses a
most eager desire of being acquainted with me, and makes very gracious
mention of my children but I am not quite weak enough to suppose a woman
who has behaved with inattention, if not with unkindness, to her own
child, should be attached to any of mine. Miss Vernon is to be placed at
a school in London before her mother comes to us which I am glad of, for
her sake and my own. It must be to her advantage to be separated from
her mother, and a girl of sixteen who has received so wretched an
education, could not be a very desirable companion here. Reginald has
long wished, I know, to see the captivating Lady Susan, and we shall
depend on his joining our party soon. I am glad to hear that my father
continues so well; and am, with best love, &c.,

CATHERINE VERNON.





IV


MR. DE COURCY TO MRS. VERNON


Parklands.


My dear Sister,--I congratulate you and Mr. Vernon on being about to
receive into your family the most accomplished coquette in England. As a
very distinguished flirt I have always been taught to consider her, but
it has lately fallen in my way to hear some particulars of her conduct
at Langford: which prove that she does not confine herself to that sort
of honest flirtation which satisfies most people, but aspires to the
more delicious gratification of making a whole family miserable. By her
behaviour to Mr. Mainwaring she gave jealousy and wretchedness to his
wife, and by her attentions to a young man previously attached to Mr.
Mainwaring's sister deprived an amiable girl of her lover.

I learnt all this from Mr. Smith, now in this neighbourhood (I have
dined with him, at Hurst and Wilford), who is just come from Langford
where he was a fortnight with her ladyship, and who is therefore well
qualified to make the communication.

What a woman she must be! I long to see her, and shall certainly accept
your kind invitation, that I may form some idea of those bewitching
powers which can do so much--engaging at the same time, and in the same
house, the affections of two men, who were neither of them at liberty to
bestow them--and all this without the charm of youth! I am glad to find
Miss Vernon does not accompany her mother to Churchhill, as she has not
even manners to recommend her; and, according to Mr. Smith's account, is
equally dull and proud. Where pride and stupidity unite there can be
no dissimulation worthy notice, and Miss Vernon shall be consigned to
unrelenting contempt; but by all that I can gather Lady Susan possesses
a degree of captivating deceit which it must be pleasing to witness and
detect. I shall be with you very soon, and 