nvinced that he will have the offer of
something else, but does not think it will be at all incumbent on him to
accept it; and then follows, what will he do? and where will he live?

I hope to hear from you to-day. How are you as to health, strength,
looks, etc.? I had a very comfortable account from Chawton yesterday.

If the weather permits, Eliza and I walk into London this morning. She
is in want of chimney lights for Tuesday, and I of an ounce of
darning-cotton. She has resolved not to venture to the play to-night.
The D'Entraigues and Comte Julien cannot come to the party, which was at
first a grief, but she has since supplied herself so well with
performers that it is of no consequence; their not coming has produced
our going to them to-morrow evening, which I like the idea of. It will
be amusing to see the ways of a French circle.

I wrote to Mrs. Hill a few days ago, and have received a most kind and
satisfactory answer. Any time the first week in May exactly suits her,
and therefore I consider my going as tolerably fixed. I shall leave
Sloane Street on the 1st or 2d, and be ready for James on the 9th, and,
if his plan alters, I can take care of myself. I have explained my views
here, and everything is smooth and pleasant; and Eliza talks kindly of
conveying me to Streatham.

We met the Tilsons yesterday evening, but the singing Smiths sent an
excuse, which put our Mrs. Smith out of humor.

We are come back, after a good dose of walking and coaching, and I have
the pleasure of your letter. I wish I had James's verses, but they were
left at Chawton. When I return thither, if Mrs. K. will give me leave, I
will send them to her.

Our first object to-day was Henrietta St., to consult with Henry in
consequence of a very unlucky change of the play for this very
night,--"Hamlet" instead of "King John,"--and we are to go on Monday to
"Macbeth" instead; but it is a disappointment to us both.

Love to all.

                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                    JANE.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXXVI.


                                  SLOANE ST., Thursday (April 25).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I can return the compliment by thanking you for
the unexpected pleasure of your letter yesterday, and as I like
unexpected pleasure, it made me very happy; and, indeed, you need not
apologize for your letter in any respect, for it is all very fine, but
not too fine, I hope, to be written again, or something like it.

I think Edward will not suffer much longer from heat; by the look of
things this morning I suspect the weather is rising into the balsamic
north-east. It has been hot here, as you may suppose, since it was so
hot with you, but I have not suffered from it at all, nor felt it in
such a degree as to make me imagine it would be anything in the country.
Everybody has talked of the heat, but I set it all down to London.

I give you joy of our new nephew, and hope if he ever comes to be hanged
it will not be till we are too old to care about it. It is a great
comfort to have it so safely and speedily over. The Miss Curlings must
be hard worked in writing so many letters, but the novelty of it may
recommend it to them; mine was from Miss Eliza, and she says that my
brother may arrive to-day.

No, indeed, I am never too busy to think of S. and S.[13] I can no more
forget it than a mother can forget her sucking child; and I am much
obliged to you for your inquiries. I have had two sheets to correct, but
the last only brings us to Willoughby's first appearance. Mrs. K.
regrets in the most flattering manner that she must wait till May, but I
have scarcely a hope of its being out in June. Henry does not neglect
it; he has hurried the printer, and says he will see him again to-day.
It will not stand still during his absence, it will be sent to Eliza.

The Incomes remain as they were, but I will get them altered if I can. I
am very much gratified by Mrs. K.'s interest in it; and whatever may be
the event of it as to my credit with her, sincerely wish her curiosity
could be satisfied sooner than is now probable. I think she will like my
Elinor, but cannot build on anything else.

Our party went off extremely well. There were many solicitudes, alarms,
and vexations beforehand, of course, but at last everything was quite
right. The rooms were dressed up with flowers, etc., and looked very
pretty. A glass for the mantelpiece was lent by the man who is making
their own. Mr. Egerton and Mr. Walter came at half-past five, and the
festivities began with a pair of very fine soles.

Yes, Mr. Walter--for he postponed his leaving London on purpose--which
did not give much pleasure at the time, any more than the circumstance
from which it rose,--his calling on Sunday and being asked by Henry to
take the family dinner on that day, which he did; but it is all smoothed
over now, and she likes him very well.

At half-past seven arrived the musicians in two hackney coaches, and by
eight the lordly company began to appear. Among the earliest were George
