ttle of Sir George, who is almost always at the gaming-table. Ah! my
poor Fortune where art thou by this time? We see more of Lady L. who
always makes her appearance (highly rouged) at Dinner-time. Alas! what
Delightful Jewels will she be decked in this evening at Lady Flambeau's!
Yet I wonder how she can herself delight in wearing them; surely she
must be sensible of the ridiculous impropriety of loading her little
diminutive figure with such superfluous ornaments; is it possible that
she can not know how greatly superior an elegant simplicity is to the
most studied apparel? Would she but Present them to Matilda and me, how
greatly should we be obliged to her, How becoming would Diamonds be on
our fine majestic figures! And how surprising it is that such an Idea
should never have occurred to HER. I am sure if I have reflected in this
manner once, I have fifty times. Whenever I see Lady Lesley dressed in
them such reflections immediately come across me. My own Mother's Jewels
too! But I will say no more on so melancholy a subject--let me entertain
you with something more pleasing--Matilda had a letter this morning from
Lesley, by which we have the pleasure of finding that he is at Naples
has turned Roman-Catholic, obtained one of the Pope's Bulls for
annulling his 1st Marriage and has since actually married a Neapolitan
Lady of great Rank and Fortune. He tells us moreover that much the same
sort of affair has befallen his first wife the worthless Louisa who is
likewise at Naples had turned Roman-catholic, and is soon to be married
to a Neapolitan Nobleman of great and Distinguished merit. He says,
that they are at present very good Freinds, have quite forgiven all
past errors and intend in future to be very good Neighbours. He invites
Matilda and me to pay him a visit to Italy and to bring him his little
Louisa whom both her Mother, Step-mother, and himself are equally
desirous of beholding. As to our accepting his invitation, it is at
Present very uncertain; Lady Lesley advises us to go without loss of
time; Fitzgerald offers to escort us there, but Matilda has some doubts
of the Propriety of such a scheme--she owns it would be very agreable.
I am certain she likes the Fellow. My Father desires us not to be in a
hurry, as perhaps if we wait a few months both he and Lady Lesley will
do themselves the pleasure of attending us. Lady Lesley says no, that
nothing will ever tempt her to forego the Amusements of Brighthelmstone
for a Journey to Italy merely to see our Brother. "No (says the
disagreable Woman) I have once in my life been fool enough to travel I
dont know how many hundred Miles to see two of the Family, and I found
it did not answer, so Deuce take me, if ever I am so foolish again."So
says her Ladyship, but Sir George still Perseveres in saying that
perhaps in a month or two, they may accompany us. Adeiu my Dear
Charlotte Yrs faithful Margaret Lesley.


*****




THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND

FROM THE REIGN OF HENRY THE 4TH TO THE DEATH OF CHARLES THE 1ST

BY A PARTIAL, PREJUDICED, AND IGNORANT HISTORIAN.

*****

To Miss Austen, eldest daughter of the Rev. George Austen, this work is
inscribed with all due respect by THE AUTHOR.


N.B. There will be very few Dates in this History.


THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND


HENRY the 4th

Henry the 4th ascended the throne of England much to his own
satisfaction in the year 1399, after having prevailed on his cousin and
predecessor Richard the 2nd, to resign it to him, and to retire for the
rest of his life to Pomfret Castle, where he happened to be murdered.
It is to be supposed that Henry was married, since he had certainly four
sons, but it is not in my power to inform the Reader who was his wife.
Be this as it may, he did not live for ever, but falling ill, his son
the Prince of Wales came and took away the crown; whereupon the King
made a long speech, for which I must refer the Reader to Shakespear's
Plays, and the Prince made a still longer. Things being thus settled
between them the King died, and was succeeded by his son Henry who had
previously beat Sir William Gascoigne.


HENRY the 5th

This Prince after he succeeded to the throne grew quite reformed and
amiable, forsaking all his dissipated companions, and never thrashing
Sir William again. During his reign, Lord Cobham was burnt alive, but I
forget what for. His Majesty then turned his thoughts to France, where
he went and fought the famous Battle of Agincourt. He afterwards married
the King's daughter Catherine, a very agreable woman by Shakespear's
account. In spite of all this however he died, and was succeeded by his
son Henry.


HENRY the 6th

I cannot say much for this Monarch's sense. Nor would I if I could, for
he was a Lancastrian. I suppose you know all about the Wars between him
and the Duke of York who was of the right side; if you do not, you had
better read some other History, for I shall not be very diffuse in this,
meaning by it only to vent my spleen AGAINST, and shew my Hatred TO all
those people whose parties or principles do not suit with mine, and not
to give information. This King married Margaret of Anjo