 of
Janetta for rejecting him. These considerations we were determined to
represent to her in their proper light and doubted not of meeting with
the desired success from one naturally so well disposed; whose errors in
the affair had only arisen from a want of proper confidence in her own
opinion, and a suitable contempt of her father's. We found her indeed
all that our warmest wishes could have hoped for; we had no difficulty
to convince her that it was impossible she could love Graham, or that it
was her Duty to disobey her Father; the only thing at which she rather
seemed to hesitate was our assertion that she must be attached to some
other Person. For some time, she persevered in declaring that she knew
no other young man for whom she had the the smallest Affection; but upon
explaining the impossibility of such a thing she said that she beleived
she DID LIKE Captain M'Kenrie better than any one she knew besides. This
confession satisfied us and after having enumerated the good Qualities
of M'Kenrie and assured her that she was violently in love with him, we
desired to know whether he had ever in any wise declared his affection
to her.

"So far from having ever declared it, I have no reason to imagine that
he has ever felt any for me." said Janetta. "That he certainly adores
you (replied Sophia) there can be no doubt--. The Attachment must be
reciprocal. Did he never gaze on you with admiration--tenderly press
your hand--drop an involantary tear--and leave the room abruptly?"
"Never (replied she) that I remember--he has always left the room indeed
when his visit has been ended, but has never gone away particularly
abruptly or without making a bow." Indeed my Love (said I) you must be
mistaken--for it is absolutely impossible that he should ever have left
you but with Confusion, Despair, and Precipitation. Consider but for a
moment Janetta, and you must be convinced how absurd it is to suppose
that he could ever make a Bow, or behave like any other Person."
Having settled this Point to our satisfaction, the next we took into
consideration was, to determine in what manner we should inform M'Kenrie
of the favourable Opinion Janetta entertained of him.... We at length
agreed to acquaint him with it by an anonymous Letter which Sophia drew
up in the following manner.

"Oh! happy Lover of the beautifull Janetta, oh! amiable Possessor of
HER Heart whose hand is destined to another, why do you thus delay a
confession of your attachment to the amiable Object of it? Oh! consider
that a few weeks will at once put an end to every flattering Hope that
you may now entertain, by uniting the unfortunate Victim of her father's
Cruelty to the execrable and detested Graham."

"Alas! why do you thus so cruelly connive at the projected Misery of
her and of yourself by delaying to communicate that scheme which had
doubtless long possessed your imagination? A secret Union will at once
secure the felicity of both."

The amiable M'Kenrie, whose modesty as he afterwards assured us had
been the only reason of his having so long concealed the violence of
his affection for Janetta, on receiving this Billet flew on the wings of
Love to Macdonald-Hall, and so powerfully pleaded his Attachment to her
who inspired it, that after a few more private interveiws, Sophia and
I experienced the satisfaction of seeing them depart for Gretna-Green,
which they chose for the celebration of their Nuptials, in preference
to any other place although it was at a considerable distance from
Macdonald-Hall. Adeiu Laura.




LETTER the 13th LAURA in continuation

They had been gone nearly a couple of Hours, before either Macdonald or
Graham had entertained any suspicion of the affair. And they might not
even then have suspected it, but for the following little Accident.
Sophia happening one day to open a private Drawer in Macdonald's Library
with one of her own keys, discovered that it was the Place where he
kept his Papers of consequence and amongst them some bank notes of
considerable amount. This discovery she imparted to me; and having
agreed together that it would be a proper treatment of so vile a Wretch
as Macdonald to deprive him of money, perhaps dishonestly gained, it was
determined that the next time we should either of us happen to go that
way, we would take one or more of the Bank notes from the drawer. This
well meant Plan we had often successfully put in Execution; but alas!
on the very day of Janetta's Escape, as Sophia was majestically removing
the 5th Bank-note from the Drawer to her own purse, she was suddenly
most impertinently interrupted in her employment by the entrance of
Macdonald himself, in a most abrupt and precipitate Manner. Sophia (who
though naturally all winning sweetness could when occasions demanded it
call forth the Dignity of her sex) instantly put on a most forbidding
look, and darting an angry frown on the undaunted culprit, demanded in
a haughty tone of voice "Wherefore her retirement was thus insolently
broken in on?" The unblushing Macdonald, without even endeavouring to
exculpate himself from the crime he was charged with, meanly e