and something agreably lively in the appearance of their
pretty little Mother-in-law. But tho' one may be majestic and the other
lively, yet the faces of neither possess that Bewitching sweetness of
my Eloisas, which her present languor is so far from diminushing. What
would my Husband and Brother say of us, if they knew all the fine things
I have been saying to you in this letter. It is very hard that a pretty
woman is never to be told she is so by any one of her own sex without
that person's being suspected to be either her determined Enemy, or
her professed Toad-eater. How much more amiable are women in that
particular! One man may say forty civil things to another without our
supposing that he is ever paid for it, and provided he does his Duty by
our sex, we care not how Polite he is to his own.

Mrs Lutterell will be so good as to accept my compliments, Charlotte,
my Love, and Eloisa the best wishes for the recovery of her Health and
Spirits that can be offered by her affectionate Freind E. Marlowe.

I am afraid this letter will be but a poor specimen of my Powers in the
witty way; and your opinion of them will not be greatly increased when I
assure you that I have been as entertaining as I possibly could.




LETTER the TENTH From Miss MARGARET LESLEY to Miss CHARLOTTE LUTTERELL
Portman Square April 13th

MY DEAR CHARLOTTE We left Lesley-Castle on the 28th of last Month,
and arrived safely in London after a Journey of seven Days; I had the
pleasure of finding your Letter here waiting my Arrival, for which you
have my grateful Thanks. Ah! my dear Freind I every day more regret the
serene and tranquil Pleasures of the Castle we have left, in exchange
for the uncertain and unequal Amusements of this vaunted City. Not that
I will pretend to assert that these uncertain and unequal Amusements
are in the least Degree unpleasing to me; on the contrary I enjoy them
extremely and should enjoy them even more, were I not certain that every
appearance I make in Public but rivetts the Chains of those unhappy
Beings whose Passion it is impossible not to pity, tho' it is out of my
power to return. In short my Dear Charlotte it is my sensibility for
the sufferings of so many amiable young Men, my Dislike of the extreme
admiration I meet with, and my aversion to being so celebrated both in
Public, in Private, in Papers, and in Printshops, that are the reasons
why I cannot more fully enjoy, the Amusements so various and pleasing
of London. How often have I wished that I possessed as little Personal
Beauty as you do; that my figure were as inelegant; my face as unlovely;
and my appearance as unpleasing as yours! But ah! what little chance
is there of so desirable an Event; I have had the small-pox, and must
therefore submit to my unhappy fate.

I am now going to intrust you my dear Charlotte with a secret which has
long disturbed the tranquility of my days, and which is of a kind to
require the most inviolable Secrecy from you. Last Monday se'night
Matilda and I accompanied Lady Lesley to a Rout at the Honourable Mrs
Kickabout's; we were escorted by Mr Fitzgerald who is a very amiable
young Man in the main, tho' perhaps a little singular in his Taste--He
is in love with Matilda--. We had scarcely paid our Compliments to the
Lady of the House and curtseyed to half a score different people when my
Attention was attracted by the appearance of a Young Man the most lovely
of his Sex, who at that moment entered the Room with another Gentleman
and Lady. From the first moment I beheld him, I was certain that on him
depended the future Happiness of my Life. Imagine my surprise when he
was introduced to me by the name of Cleveland--I instantly recognised
him as the Brother of Mrs Marlowe, and the acquaintance of my Charlotte
at Bristol. Mr and Mrs M. were the gentleman and Lady who accompanied
him. (You do not think Mrs Marlowe handsome?) The elegant address of Mr
Cleveland, his polished Manners and Delightful Bow, at once confirmed my
attachment. He did not speak; but I can imagine everything he would have
said, had he opened his Mouth. I can picture to myself the cultivated
Understanding, the Noble sentiments, and elegant Language which would
have shone so conspicuous in the conversation of Mr Cleveland. The
approach of Sir James Gower (one of my too numerous admirers) prevented
the Discovery of any such Powers, by putting an end to a Conversation we
had never commenced, and by attracting my attention to himself. But oh!
how inferior are the accomplishments of Sir James to those of his so
greatly envied Rival! Sir James is one of the most frequent of our
Visitors, and is almost always of our Parties. We have since often met
Mr and Mrs Marlowe but no Cleveland--he is always engaged some where
else. Mrs Marlowe fatigues me to Death every time I see her by her
tiresome Conversations about you and Eloisa. She is so stupid! I live in
the hope of seeing her irrisistable Brother to night, as we are going to
Lady Flambeaus, who is I know intimate with the Marlowes. Our party will
be Lady Lesley, Matilda, Fitzgerald, Sir James Gower, and myself. We see
li