VE, besides the inhabitants
of Oxford who were always loyal to their King and faithful to his
interests. The names of this noble five who never forgot the duty of
the subject, or swerved from their attachment to his Majesty, were as
follows--The King himself, ever stedfast in his own support--Archbishop
Laud, Earl of Strafford, Viscount Faulkland and Duke of Ormond, who were
scarcely less strenuous or zealous in the cause. While the VILLIANS
of the time would make too long a list to be written or read; I shall
therefore content myself with mentioning the leaders of the Gang.
Cromwell, Fairfax, Hampden, and Pym may be considered as the original
Causers of all the disturbances, Distresses, and Civil Wars in which
England for many years was embroiled. In this reign as well as in that
of Elizabeth, I am obliged in spite of my attachment to the Scotch,
to consider them as equally guilty with the generality of the English,
since they dared to think differently from their Sovereign, to forget
the Adoration which as STUARTS it was their Duty to pay them, to rebel
against, dethrone and imprison the unfortunate Mary; to oppose, to
deceive, and to sell the no less unfortunate Charles. The Events of this
Monarch's reign are too numerous for my pen, and indeed the recital
of any Events (except what I make myself) is uninteresting to me; my
principal reason for undertaking the History of England being to Prove
the innocence of the Queen of Scotland, which I flatter myself with
having effectually done, and to abuse Elizabeth, tho' I am rather
fearful of having fallen short in the latter part of my scheme.--As
therefore it is not my intention to give any particular account of the
distresses into which this King was involved through the misconduct and
Cruelty of his Parliament, I shall satisfy myself with vindicating him
from the Reproach of Arbitrary and tyrannical Government with which he
has often been charged. This, I feel, is not difficult to be done, for
with one argument I am certain of satisfying every sensible and well
disposed person whose opinions have been properly guided by a good
Education--and this Argument is that he was a STUART.

Finis Saturday Nov: 26th 1791.


*****




A COLLECTION OF LETTERS




To Miss COOPER

COUSIN Conscious of the Charming Character which in every Country, and
every Clime in Christendom is Cried, Concerning you, with Caution and
Care I Commend to your Charitable Criticism this Clever Collection
of Curious Comments, which have been Carefully Culled, Collected and
Classed by your Comical Cousin

The Author.

*****




A COLLECTION OF LETTERS




LETTER the FIRST From a MOTHER to her FREIND.

My Children begin now to claim all my attention in different Manner from
that in which they have been used to receive it, as they are now arrived
at that age when it is necessary for them in some measure to become
conversant with the World, My Augusta is 17 and her sister scarcely a
twelvemonth younger. I flatter myself that their education has been such
as will not disgrace their appearance in the World, and that THEY will
not disgrace their Education I have every reason to beleive. Indeed they
are sweet Girls--. Sensible yet unaffected--Accomplished yet Easy--.
Lively yet Gentle--. As their progress in every thing they have learnt
has been always the same, I am willing to forget the difference of age,
and to introduce them together into Public. This very Evening is fixed
on as their first ENTREE into Life, as we are to drink tea with Mrs Cope
and her Daughter. I am glad that we are to meet no one, for my Girls
sake, as it would be awkward for them to enter too wide a Circle on the
very first day. But we shall proceed by degrees.--Tomorrow Mr Stanly's
family will drink tea with us, and perhaps the Miss Phillips's will meet
them. On Tuesday we shall pay Morning Visits--On Wednesday we are to
dine at Westbrook. On Thursday we have Company at home. On Friday we
are to be at a Private Concert at Sir John Wynna's--and on Saturday
we expect Miss Dawson to call in the Morning--which will complete my
Daughters Introduction into Life. How they will bear so much dissipation
I cannot imagine; of their spirits I have no fear, I only dread their
health.

This mighty affair is now happily over, and my Girls are OUT. As the
moment approached for our departure, you can have no idea how the sweet
Creatures trembled with fear and expectation. Before the Carriage drove
to the door, I called them into my dressing-room, and as soon as they
were seated thus addressed them. "My dear Girls the moment is now
arrived when I am to reap the rewards of all my Anxieties and Labours
towards you during your Education. You are this Evening to enter a World
in which you will meet with many wonderfull Things; Yet let me warn
you against suffering yourselves to be meanly swayed by the Follies and
Vices of others, for beleive me my beloved Children that if you do--I
shall be very sorry for it." They both assured me that they would ever
remember my advice with Gratitude, and follow it with attention; That
they were prepared to find a World full of th