transports will be when
I feel the dear precious drops trickle on my face! Who would not die
to haste such extacy! And when I am interred, may the divine Henrietta
bless some happier Youth with her affection, May he be as tenderly
attached to her as the hapless Musgrove and while HE crumbles to dust,
May they live an example of Felicity in the Conjugal state!"

Did you ever hear any thing so pathetic? What a charming wish, to be
lain at my feet when he was dead! Oh! what an exalted mind he must have
to be capable of such a wish! Lady Scudamore went on.

"Ah! my dear Cousin replied I to him, such noble behaviour as this, must
melt the heart of any woman however obdurate it may naturally be;
and could the divine Henrietta but hear your generous wishes for her
happiness, all gentle as is her mind, I have not a doubt but that she
would pity your affection and endeavour to return it." "Oh! Cousin
answered he, do not endeavour to raise my hopes by such flattering
assurances. No, I cannot hope to please this angel of a Woman, and the
only thing which remains for me to do, is to die." "True Love is ever
desponding replied I, but I my dear Tom will give you even greater
hopes of conquering this fair one's heart, than I have yet given you, by
assuring you that I watched her with the strictest attention during the
whole day, and could plainly discover that she cherishes in her bosom
though unknown to herself, a most tender affection for you."

"Dear Lady Scudamore cried I, This is more than I ever knew!"

"Did not I say that it was unknown to yourself? I did not, continued
I to him, encourage you by saying this at first, that surprise might
render the pleasure still Greater." "No Cousin replied he in a languid
voice, nothing will convince me that I can have touched the heart of
Henrietta Halton, and if you are deceived yourself, do not attempt
deceiving me." "In short my Love it was the work of some hours for me to
Persuade the poor despairing Youth that you had really a preference for
him; but when at last he could no longer deny the force of my arguments,
or discredit what I told him, his transports, his Raptures, his Extacies
are beyond my power to describe."

"Oh! the dear Creature, cried I, how passionately he loves me! But dear
Lady Scudamore did you tell him that I was totally dependant on my Uncle
and Aunt?"

"Yes, I told him every thing."

"And what did he say."

"He exclaimed with virulence against Uncles and Aunts; Accused the laws
of England for allowing them to Possess their Estates when wanted by
their Nephews or Neices, and wished HE were in the House of Commons,
that he might reform the Legislature, and rectify all its abuses."

"Oh! the sweet Man! What a spirit he has!" said I.

"He could not flatter himself he added, that the adorable Henrietta
would condescend for his sake to resign those Luxuries and that splendor
to which she had been used, and accept only in exchange the Comforts
and Elegancies which his limited Income could afford her, even supposing
that his house were in Readiness to receive her. I told him that it
could not be expected that she would; it would be doing her an injustice
to suppose her capable of giving up the power she now possesses and so
nobly uses of doing such extensive Good to the poorer part of her fellow
Creatures, merely for the gratification of you and herself."

"To be sure said I, I AM very Charitable every now and then. And what
did Mr Musgrove say to this?"

"He replied that he was under a melancholy necessity of owning the truth
of what I said, and that therefore if he should be the happy Creature
destined to be the Husband of the Beautiful Henrietta he must bring
himself to wait, however impatiently, for the fortunate day, when she
might be freed from the power of worthless Relations and able to bestow
herself on him."

What a noble Creature he is! Oh! Matilda what a fortunate one I am, who
am to be his Wife! My Aunt is calling me to come and make the pies, so
adeiu my dear freind, and beleive me yours etc--H. Halton.

Finis.




*****



SCRAPS


To Miss FANNY CATHERINE AUSTEN

MY Dear Neice As I am prevented by the great distance between Rowling
and Steventon from superintending your Education myself, the care of
which will probably on that account devolve on your Father and Mother,
I think it is my particular Duty to Prevent your feeling as much as
possible the want of my personal instructions, by addressing to you on
paper my Opinions and Admonitions on the conduct of Young Women, which
you will find expressed in the following pages.--I am my dear Neice Your
affectionate Aunt The Author.




THE FEMALE PHILOSOPHER

A LETTER

My Dear Louisa Your friend Mr Millar called upon us yesterday in his way
to Bath, whither he is going for his health; two of his daughters were
with him, but the eldest and the three Boys are with their Mother in
Sussex. Though you have often told me that Miss Millar was remarkably
handsome, you never mentioned anything of her Sisters' beauty; yet they
are certainly extremely pretty. I'll give you their description.--Julia
is eighteen; with a countenance 