attack be more favourable! and
may you always regard me as unalterably yours,

S. VERNON





XL


LADY DE COURCY TO MRS. VERNON


My dear Catherine,--I have charming news for you, and if I had not sent
off my letter this morning you might have been spared the vexation of
knowing of Reginald's being gone to London, for he is returned. Reginald
is returned, not to ask our consent to his marrying Lady Susan, but to
tell us they are parted for ever. He has been only an hour in the house,
and I have not been able to learn particulars, for he is so very low
that I have not the heart to ask questions, but I hope we shall soon
know all. This is the most joyful hour he has ever given us since the
day of his birth. Nothing is wanting but to have you here, and it is our
particular wish and entreaty that you would come to us as soon as you
can. You have owed us a visit many long weeks; I hope nothing will make
it inconvenient to Mr. Vernon; and pray bring all my grand-children; and
your dear niece is included, of course; I long to see her. It has been
a sad, heavy winter hitherto, without Reginald, and seeing nobody from
Churchhill. I never found the season so dreary before; but this happy
meeting will make us young again. Frederica runs much in my thoughts,
and when Reginald has recovered his usual good spirits (as I trust he
soon will) we will try to rob him of his heart once more, and I am full
of hopes of seeing their hands joined at no great distance.

Your affectionate mother,

C. DE COURCY





XLI


MRS. VERNON TO LADY DE COURCY


Churchhill.


My dear Mother,--Your letter has surprized me beyond measure! Can it be
true that they are really separated--and for ever? I should be overjoyed
if I dared depend on it, but after all that I have seen how can one be
secure. And Reginald really with you! My surprize is the greater because
on Wednesday, the very day of his coming to Parklands, we had a most
unexpected and unwelcome visit from Lady Susan, looking all cheerfulness
and good-humour, and seeming more as if she were to marry him when she
got to London than as if parted from him for ever. She stayed nearly two
hours, was as affectionate and agreeable as ever, and not a syllable,
not a hint was dropped, of any disagreement or coolness between them.
I asked her whether she had seen my brother since his arrival in town;
not, as you may suppose, with any doubt of the fact, but merely to see
how she looked. She immediately answered, without any embarrassment,
that he had been kind enough to call on her on Monday; but she believed
he had already returned home, which I was very far from crediting. Your
kind invitation is accepted by us with pleasure, and on Thursday next we
and our little ones will be with you. Pray heaven, Reginald may not be
in town again by that time! I wish we could bring dear Frederica too,
but I am sorry to say that her mother's errand hither was to fetch her
away; and, miserable as it made the poor girl, it was impossible to
detain her. I was thoroughly unwilling to let her go, and so was her
uncle; and all that could be urged we did urge; but Lady Susan declared
that as she was now about to fix herself in London for several months,
she could not be easy if her daughter were not with her for masters,
&c. Her manner, to be sure, was very kind and proper, and Mr. Vernon
believes that Frederica will now be treated with affection. I wish I
could think so too. The poor girl's heart was almost broke at taking
leave of us. I charged her to write to me very often, and to remember
that if she were in any distress we should be always her friends. I took
care to see her alone, that I might say all this, and I hope made her a
little more comfortable; but I shall not be easy till I can go to town
and judge of her situation myself. I wish there were a better prospect
than now appears of the match which the conclusion of your letter
declares your expectations of. At present, it is not very likely,

Yours ever, &c.,

C. VERNON






CONCLUSION


This correspondence, by a meeting between some of the parties, and a
separation between the others, could not, to the great detriment of the
Post Office revenue, be continued any longer. Very little assistance
to the State could be derived from the epistolary intercourse of Mrs.
Vernon and her niece; for the former soon perceived, by the style
of Frederica's letters, that they were written under her mother's
inspection! and therefore, deferring all particular enquiry till she
could make it personally in London, ceased writing minutely or often.
Having learnt enough, in the meanwhile, from her open-hearted brother,
of what had passed between him and Lady Susan to sink the latter lower
than ever in her opinion, she was proportionably more anxious to get
Frederica removed from such a mother, and placed under her own care;
and, though with little hope of success, was resolved to leave nothing
unattempted that might offer a chance of obtaining her sister-in-law's
consent to it. Her anxiety on the subject made her press for an early
visit to London; and Mr. Vernon, who, as it must already have