hat I might have done without either. I produced my brown
bombazine yesterday, and it was very much admired indeed, and I like it
better than ever.

You have given many particulars of the state of Chawton House, but still
we want more. Edward wants to be expressly told that all the round
tower, etc., is entirely down, and the door from the best room stopped
up; he does not know enough of the appearance of things in that quarter.

He heard from Bath yesterday. Lady B. continues very well, and Dr.
Parry's opinion is, that while the water agrees with her she ought to
remain there, which throws their coming away at a greater uncertainty
than we had supposed. It will end, perhaps, in a fit of the gout, which
may prevent her coming away. Louisa thinks her mother's being so well
may be quite as much owing to her being so much out of doors as to the
water. Lady B. is going to try the hot pump, the Cross bath being about
to be painted. Louisa is particularly well herself, and thinks the water
has been of use to her. She mentioned our inquiries, etc., to Mr. and
Mrs. Alex. Evelyn, and had their best compliments and thanks to give in
return. Dr. Parry does not expect Mr. E. to last much longer.

Only think of Mrs. Holder's being dead! Poor woman, she has done the
only thing in the world she could possibly do to make one cease to abuse
her. Now, if you please, Hooper must have it in his power to do more by
his uncle. Lucky for the little girl. An Anne Ekins can hardly be so
unfit for the care of a child as a Mrs. Holder.

A letter from Wrotham yesterday offering an early visit here, and Mr.
and Mrs. Moore and one child are to come on Monday for ten days. I hope
Charles and Fanny may not fix the same time, but if they come at all in
October they must. What is the use of hoping? The two parties of
children is the chief evil.

To be sure, here we are; the very thing has happened, or rather
worse,--a letter from Charles this very morning, which gives us reason
to suppose they may come here to-day. It depends upon the weather, and
the weather now is very fine. No difficulties are made, however, and,
indeed, there will be no want of room; but I wish there were no Wigrams
and Lushingtons in the way to fill up the table and make us such a
motley set. I cannot spare Mr. Lushington either, because of his frank,
but Mr. Wigram does no good to anybody. I cannot imagine how a man can
have the impudence to come into a family party for three days, where he
is quite a stranger, unless he knows himself to be agreeable on
undoubted authority. He and Edw. B. are going to ride to Eastwell, and
as the boys are hunting, and my brother is gone to Canty., Fanny and I
have a quiet morning before us.

Edward has driven off poor Mrs. Salkeld. It was thought a good
opportunity of doing something towards clearing the house. By her own
desire Mrs. Fanny[26] is to be put in the room next the nursery, her baby
in a little bed by her; and as Cassy is to have the closet within, and
Betsey William's little hole, they will be all very snug together. I
shall be most happy to see dear Charles, and he will be as happy as he
can with a cross child, or some such care, pressing on him at the time.
I should be very happy in the idea of seeing little Cassy again, too,
did not I fear she would disappoint me by some immediate
disagreeableness. . . .

The comfort of the billiard-table here is very great; it draws all the
gentlemen to it whenever they are within, especially after dinner, so
that my brother, Fanny, and I have the library to ourselves in
delightful quiet. There is no truth in the report of G. Hatton being to
marry Miss Wemyss. He desires it may be contradicted.

Have you done anything about our present to Miss Benn? I suppose she
must have a bed at my mother's whenever she dines there. How will they
manage as to inviting her when you are gone? and if they invite, how
will they continue to entertain her?

Let me know as many of your parting arrangements as you can, as to wine,
etc. I wonder whether the ink-bottle has been filled. Does butcher's
meat keep up at the same price, and is not bread lower than 2_s._ 6_d._?
Mary's blue gown! My mother must be in agonies. I have a great mind to
have my blue gown dyed some time or other. I proposed it once to you,
and you made some objection, I forget what. It is the fashion of
flounces that gives it particular expediency.

Mrs. and Miss Wildman have just been here. Miss is very plain. I wish
Lady B. may be returned before we leave Gm., that Fanny may spend the
time of her father's absence at Goodnestone, which is what she would
prefer.

_Friday._--They came last night at about seven. We had given them up,
but I still expected them to come. Dessert was nearly over; a better
time for arriving than an hour and a half earlier. They were late
because they did not set out earlier, and did not allow time enough.
Charles did not aim at more than reaching Sittingbourne by three, which
could not have brought them here by dinner-time. They had a very rough
passage; he would not have ventured if he had known how bad it would be.

However, h