one which
had for ages been established in the Kingdom. His Majesty's 5th Wife
was the Duke of Norfolk's Neice who, tho' universally acquitted of the
crimes for which she was beheaded, has been by many people supposed to
have led an abandoned life before her Marriage--of this however I have
many doubts, since she was a relation of that noble Duke of Norfolk who
was so warm in the Queen of Scotland's cause, and who at last fell a
victim to it. The Kings last wife contrived to survive him, but with
difficulty effected it. He was succeeded by his only son Edward.


EDWARD the 6th

As this prince was only nine years old at the time of his Father's
death, he was considered by many people as too young to govern, and the
late King happening to be of the same opinion, his mother's Brother the
Duke of Somerset was chosen Protector of the realm during his minority.
This Man was on the whole of a very amiable Character, and is somewhat
of a favourite with me, tho' I would by no means pretend to affirm that
he was equal to those first of Men Robert Earl of Essex, Delamere, or
Gilpin. He was beheaded, of which he might with reason have been proud,
had he known that such was the death of Mary Queen of Scotland; but
as it was impossible that he should be conscious of what had never
happened, it does not appear that he felt particularly delighted with
the manner of it. After his decease the Duke of Northumberland had the
care of the King and the Kingdom, and performed his trust of both so
well that the King died and the Kingdom was left to his daughter in law
the Lady Jane Grey, who has been already mentioned as reading Greek.
Whether she really understood that language or whether such a study
proceeded only from an excess of vanity for which I beleive she was
always rather remarkable, is uncertain. Whatever might be the cause,
she preserved the same appearance of knowledge, and contempt of what
was generally esteemed pleasure, during the whole of her life, for
she declared herself displeased with being appointed Queen, and while
conducting to the scaffold, she wrote a sentence in Latin and another in
Greek on seeing the dead Body of her Husband accidentally passing that
way.


MARY

This woman had the good luck of being advanced to the throne of England,
in spite of the superior pretensions, Merit, and Beauty of her Cousins
Mary Queen of Scotland and Jane Grey. Nor can I pity the Kingdom for the
misfortunes they experienced during her Reign, since they fully deserved
them, for having allowed her to succeed her Brother--which was a double
peice of folly, since they might have foreseen that as she died without
children, she would be succeeded by that disgrace to humanity, that
pest of society, Elizabeth. Many were the people who fell martyrs to the
protestant Religion during her reign; I suppose not fewer than a dozen.
She married Philip King of Spain who in her sister's reign was famous
for building Armadas. She died without issue, and then the dreadful
moment came in which the destroyer of all comfort, the deceitful
Betrayer of trust reposed in her, and the Murderess of her Cousin
succeeded to the Throne.----


ELIZABETH

It was the peculiar misfortune of this Woman to have bad
Ministers---Since wicked as she herself was, she could not have
committed such extensive mischeif, had not these vile and abandoned Men
connived at, and encouraged her in her Crimes. I know that it has by
many people been asserted and beleived that Lord Burleigh, Sir Francis
Walsingham, and the rest of those who filled the cheif offices of State
were deserving, experienced, and able Ministers. But oh! how blinded
such writers and such Readers must be to true Merit, to Merit despised,
neglected and defamed, if they can persist in such opinions when they
reflect that these men, these boasted men were such scandals to their
Country and their sex as to allow and assist their Queen in confining
for the space of nineteen years, a WOMAN who if the claims of
Relationship and Merit were of no avail, yet as a Queen and as one who
condescended to place confidence in her, had every reason to expect
assistance and protection; and at length in allowing Elizabeth to bring
this amiable Woman to an untimely, unmerited, and scandalous Death. Can
any one if he reflects but for a moment on this blot, this everlasting
blot upon their understanding and their Character, allow any praise to
Lord Burleigh or Sir Francis Walsingham? Oh! what must this bewitching
Princess whose only freind was then the Duke of Norfolk, and whose
only ones now Mr Whitaker, Mrs Lefroy, Mrs Knight and myself, who was
abandoned by her son, confined by her Cousin, abused, reproached and
vilified by all, what must not her most noble mind have suffered when
informed that Elizabeth had given orders for her Death! Yet she bore
it with a most unshaken fortitude, firm in her mind; constant in her
Religion; and prepared herself to meet the cruel fate to which she
was doomed, with a magnanimity that would alone proceed from conscious
Innocence. And yet could you Reader have beleived it possible that
some hardened and zeal