t tho' Matilda and I often spent several weeks
together with them, yet we neither of us had any suspicion of her real
Disposition. After the birth of Louisa however, which one would have
thought would have strengthened her regard for Lesley, the mask she had
so long supported was by degrees thrown aside, and as probably she then
thought herself secure in the affection of her Husband (which did indeed
appear if possible augmented by the birth of his Child) she seemed
to take no pains to prevent that affection from ever diminushing. Our
visits therefore to Dunbeath, were now less frequent and by far less
agreable than they used to be. Our absence was however never either
mentioned or lamented by Louisa who in the society of young Danvers
with whom she became acquainted at Aberdeen (he was at one of the
Universities there,) felt infinitely happier than in that of Matilda and
your freind, tho' there certainly never were pleasanter girls than we
are. You know the sad end of all Lesleys connubial happiness; I will not
repeat it--. Adeiu my dear Charlotte; although I have not yet mentioned
anything of the matter, I hope you will do me the justice to beleive
that I THINK and FEEL, a great deal for your Sisters affliction. I do
not doubt but that the healthy air of the Bristol downs will intirely
remove it, by erasing from her Mind the remembrance of Henry. I am my
dear Charlotte yrs ever M. L.




LETTER the FOURTH From Miss C. LUTTERELL to Miss M. LESLEY Bristol
February 27th

My Dear Peggy I have but just received your letter, which being directed
to Sussex while I was at Bristol was obliged to be forwarded to me here,
and from some unaccountable Delay, has but this instant reached me--.
I return you many thanks for the account it contains of Lesley's
acquaintance, Love and Marriage with Louisa, which has not the less
entertained me for having often been repeated to me before.

I have the satisfaction of informing you that we have every reason to
imagine our pantry is by this time nearly cleared, as we left Particular
orders with the servants to eat as hard as they possibly could, and to
call in a couple of Chairwomen to assist them. We brought a cold Pigeon
pye, a cold turkey, a cold tongue, and half a dozen Jellies with us,
which we were lucky enough with the help of our Landlady, her husband,
and their three children, to get rid of, in less than two days after
our arrival. Poor Eloisa is still so very indifferent both in Health and
Spirits, that I very much fear, the air of the Bristol downs, healthy as
it is, has not been able to drive poor Henry from her remembrance.

You ask me whether your new Mother in law is handsome and amiable--I
will now give you an exact description of her bodily and mental charms.
She is short, and extremely well made; is naturally pale, but rouges a
good deal; has fine eyes, and fine teeth, as she will take care to let
you know as soon as she sees you, and is altogether very pretty. She is
remarkably good-tempered when she has her own way, and very lively when
she is not out of humour. She is naturally extravagant and not very
affected; she never reads anything but the letters she receives from me,
and never writes anything but her answers to them. She plays, sings and
Dances, but has no taste for either, and excells in none, tho' she says
she is passionately fond of all. Perhaps you may flatter me so far as to
be surprised that one of whom I speak with so little affection should
be my particular freind; but to tell you the truth, our freindship arose
rather from Caprice on her side than Esteem on mine. We spent two or
three days together with a Lady in Berkshire with whom we both happened
to be connected--. During our visit, the Weather being remarkably bad,
and our party particularly stupid, she was so good as to conceive
a violent partiality for me, which very soon settled in a downright
Freindship and ended in an established correspondence. She is probably
by this time as tired of me, as I am of her; but as she is too Polite
and I am too civil to say so, our letters are still as frequent and
affectionate as ever, and our Attachment as firm and sincere as when it
first commenced. As she had a great taste for the pleasures of London,
and of Brighthelmstone, she will I dare say find some difficulty in
prevailing on herself even to satisfy the curiosity I dare say she feels
of beholding you, at the expence of quitting those favourite haunts of
Dissipation, for the melancholy tho' venerable gloom of the castle you
inhabit. Perhaps however if she finds her health impaired by too much
amusement, she may acquire fortitude sufficient to undertake a Journey
to Scotland in the hope of its Proving at least beneficial to her
health, if not conducive to her happiness. Your fears I am sorry to say,
concerning your father's extravagance, your own fortunes, your Mothers
Jewels and your Sister's consequence, I should suppose are but too well
founded. My freind herself has four thousand pounds, and will probably
spend nearly as much every year in Dress and Public places, if she can
get it--she will certainly not e