s had at first received orders only to take the London
road; as soon as we had sufficiently reflected However, we ordered them
to Drive to M----. the seat of Edward's most particular freind, which
was but a few miles distant.

At M----. we arrived in a few hours; and on sending in our names were
immediately admitted to Sophia, the Wife of Edward's freind. After
having been deprived during the course of 3 weeks of a real freind (for
such I term your Mother) imagine my transports at beholding one, most
truly worthy of the Name. Sophia was rather above the middle size; most
elegantly formed. A soft languor spread over her lovely features, but
increased their Beauty--. It was the Charectarestic of her Mind--. She
was all sensibility and Feeling. We flew into each others arms and after
having exchanged vows of mutual Freindship for the rest of our Lives,
instantly unfolded to each other the most inward secrets of our
Hearts--. We were interrupted in the delightfull Employment by the
entrance of Augustus, (Edward's freind) who was just returned from a
solitary ramble.

Never did I see such an affecting Scene as was the meeting of Edward and
Augustus.

"My Life! my Soul!" (exclaimed the former) "My adorable angel!" (replied
the latter) as they flew into each other's arms. It was too pathetic
for the feelings of Sophia and myself--We fainted alternately on a sofa.
Adeiu Laura.




LETTER the 9th From the same to the same

Towards the close of the day we received the following Letter from
Philippa.

"Sir Edward is greatly incensed by your abrupt departure; he has
taken back Augusta to Bedfordshire. Much as I wish to enjoy again your
charming society, I cannot determine to snatch you from that, of such
dear and deserving Freinds--When your Visit to them is terminated, I
trust you will return to the arms of your" "Philippa."

We returned a suitable answer to this affectionate Note and after
thanking her for her kind invitation assured her that we would certainly
avail ourselves of it, whenever we might have no other place to go to.
Tho' certainly nothing could to any reasonable Being, have appeared more
satisfactory, than so gratefull a reply to her invitation, yet I know
not how it was, but she was certainly capricious enough to be displeased
with our behaviour and in a few weeks after, either to revenge our
Conduct, or releive her own solitude, married a young and illiterate
Fortune-hunter. This imprudent step (tho' we were sensible that it would
probably deprive us of that fortune which Philippa had ever taught us to
expect) could not on our own accounts, excite from our exalted minds a
single sigh; yet fearfull lest it might prove a source of endless misery
to the deluded Bride, our trembling Sensibility was greatly affected
when we were first informed of the Event. The affectionate Entreaties of
Augustus and Sophia that we would for ever consider their House as our
Home, easily prevailed on us to determine never more to leave them, In
the society of my Edward and this Amiable Pair, I passed the happiest
moments of my Life; Our time was most delightfully spent, in mutual
Protestations of Freindship, and in vows of unalterable Love, in which
we were secure from being interrupted, by intruding and disagreable
Visitors, as Augustus and Sophia had on their first Entrance in the
Neighbourhood, taken due care to inform the surrounding Families, that
as their happiness centered wholly in themselves, they wished for no
other society. But alas! my Dear Marianne such Happiness as I then
enjoyed was too perfect to be lasting. A most severe and unexpected Blow
at once destroyed every sensation of Pleasure. Convinced as you must be
from what I have already told you concerning Augustus and Sophia, that
there never were a happier Couple, I need not I imagine, inform you that
their union had been contrary to the inclinations of their Cruel
and Mercenery Parents; who had vainly endeavoured with obstinate
Perseverance to force them into a Marriage with those whom they had ever
abhorred; but with a Heroic Fortitude worthy to be related and admired,
they had both, constantly refused to submit to such despotic Power.

After having so nobly disentangled themselves from the shackles of
Parental Authority, by a Clandestine Marriage, they were determined
never to forfeit the good opinion they had gained in the World, in
so doing, by accepting any proposals of reconciliation that might be
offered them by their Fathers--to this farther tryal of their noble
independance however they never were exposed.

They had been married but a few months when our visit to them commenced
during which time they had been amply supported by a considerable sum of
money which Augustus had gracefully purloined from his unworthy father's
Escritoire, a few days before his union with Sophia.

By our arrival their Expenses were considerably encreased tho' their
means for supplying them were then nearly exhausted. But they, Exalted
Creatures! scorned to reflect a moment on their pecuniary Distresses and
would have blushed at the idea of paying their Debts.--Alas! what was
their Rewar