or partners. I shall be
extremely impatient to hear from you again, that I may know how Eliza
is, and when you are to return.

With best love, etc., I am affectionately yours,

                                                  J. AUSTEN.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    The Rev. Mr. Fowle's, Kintbury, Newbury




II.


                             CORK STREET, Tuesday morn (August, 1796).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Here I am once more in this scene of dissipation and
vice, and I begin already to find my morals corrupted. We reached
Staines yesterday, I do not (know) when, without suffering so much from
the heat as I had hoped to do. We set off again this morning at seven
o'clock, and had a very pleasant drive, as the morning was cloudy and
perfectly cool. I came all the way in the chaise from Hertford Bridge.

Edward[1] and Frank[2] are both gone out to seek their fortunes; the
latter is to return soon and help us seek ours. The former we shall
never see again. We are to be at Astley's to-night, which I am glad of.
Edward has heard from Henry this morning. He has not been at the races
at all, unless his driving Miss Pearson over to Rowling one day can be
so called. We shall find him there on Thursday.

I hope you are all alive after our melancholy parting yesterday, and
that you pursued your intended avocation with success. God bless you! I
must leave off, for we are going out.

                             Yours very affectionately,
                                                     J. AUSTEN.

Everybody's love.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Miss Austen's second brother.

[2] Francis, afterward Sir Francis Austen, Senior Admiral of the Fleet,
and K. C. B.




III.


                                      ROWLING, Monday (September 5).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I shall be extremely anxious to hear the event of
your ball, and shall hope to receive so long and minute an account of
every particular that I shall be tired of reading it. Let me know how
many, besides their fourteen selves and Mr. and Mrs. Wright, Michael
will contrive to place about their coach, and how many of the gentlemen,
musicians, and waiters he will have persuaded to come in their
shooting-jackets. I hope John Lovett's accident will not prevent his
attending the ball, as you will otherwise be obliged to dance with Mr.
Tincton the whole evening. Let me know how J. Harwood deports himself
without the Miss Biggs, and which of the Marys will carry the day with
my brother James.

_We_ were at a ball on Saturday, I assure you. We dined at Goodnestone,
and in the evening danced two country-dances and the Boulangeries. I
opened the ball with Edward Bridges; the other couples were Lewis Cage
and Harriet, Frank and Louisa, Fanny and George. Elizabeth played one
country-dance, Lady Bridges the other, which she made Henry dance with
her, and Miss Finch played the Boulangeries.

In reading over the last three or four lines, I am aware of my having
expressed myself in so doubtful a manner that if I did not tell you to
the contrary, you might imagine it was Lady Bridges who made Henry dance
with her at the same time that she was playing, which, if not
impossible, must appear a very improbable event to you. But it was
Elizabeth who danced. We supped there, and walked home at night under
the shade of two umbrellas.

To-day the Goodnestone party begins to disperse and spread itself
abroad. Mr. and Mrs. Cage and George repair to Hythe. Lady Waltham, Miss
Bridges, and Miss Mary Finch to Dover, for the health of the two former.
I have never seen Marianne at all. On Thursday Mr. and Mrs. Bridges
return to Danbury; Miss Harriet Hales accompanies them to London on her
way to Dorsetshire.

Farmer Claringbould died this morning, and I fancy Edward means to get
some of his farm, if he can cheat Sir Brook enough in the agreement.

We have just got some venison from Godmersham, which the two Mr. Harveys
are to dine on to-morrow, and on Friday or Saturday the Goodnestone
people are to finish their scraps. Henry went away on Friday, as he
purposed, _without fayl_. You will hear from him soon, I imagine, as he
talked of writing to Steventon shortly. Mr. Richard Harvey is going to
be married; but as it is a great secret, and only known to half the
neighborhood, you must not mention it. The lady's name is Musgrave.

I am in great distress. I cannot determine whether I shall give Richis
half a guinea or only five shillings when I go away. Counsel me, amiable
Miss Austen, and tell me which will be the most.

We walked Frank last night to Crixhall Ruff, and he appeared much
edified. Little Edward was breeched yesterday for good and all, and was
whipped into the bargain.

Pray remember me to everybody who does not inquire after me; those who
do, remember me without bidding. Give my love to Mary Harrison, and
tell her I wish, whenever she is attached to a young man, some
respectable Dr. Marchmont may keep them apart for five volumes. . . .




IV.


                                    ROWLING, Thursday (September 15).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--We have been very gay since I wrote last; dining at
Nackington, returning by moonlight, and e