pect--I was quite silenced, and never felt so awkward in my Life---.




LETTER the FIFTH From a YOUNG LADY very much in love to her Freind

My Uncle gets more stingy, my Aunt more particular, and I more in love
every day. What shall we all be at this rate by the end of the year! I
had this morning the happiness of receiving the following Letter from my
dear Musgrove.

Sackville St: Janry 7th It is a month to day since I first beheld my
lovely Henrietta, and the sacred anniversary must and shall be kept in
a manner becoming the day--by writing to her. Never shall I forget the
moment when her Beauties first broke on my sight--No time as you well
know can erase it from my Memory. It was at Lady Scudamores. Happy Lady
Scudamore to live within a mile of the divine Henrietta! When the lovely
Creature first entered the room, oh! what were my sensations? The sight
of you was like the sight ofa wonderful fine Thing. I started--I gazed
at her with admiration--She appeared every moment more Charming, and the
unfortunate Musgrove became a captive to your Charms before I had time
to look about me. Yes Madam, I had the happiness of adoring you, an
happiness for which I cannot be too grateful. "What said he to himself
is Musgrove allowed to die for Henrietta? Enviable Mortal! and may he
pine for her who is the object of universal admiration, who is adored
by a Colonel, and toasted by a Baronet! Adorable Henrietta how beautiful
you are! I declare you are quite divine! You are more than Mortal.
You are an Angel. You are Venus herself. In short Madam you are the
prettiest Girl I ever saw in my Life--and her Beauty is encreased in her
Musgroves Eyes, by permitting him to love her and allowing me to hope.
And ah! Angelic Miss Henrietta Heaven is my witness how ardently I do
hope for the death of your villanous Uncle and his abandoned Wife, since
my fair one will not consent to be mine till their decease has placed
her in affluence above what my fortune can procure--. Though it is an
improvable Estate--. Cruel Henrietta to persist in such a resolution! I
am at Present with my sister where I mean to continue till my own house
which tho' an excellent one is at Present somewhat out of repair, is
ready to receive me. Amiable princess of my Heart farewell--Of that
Heart which trembles while it signs itself Your most ardent Admirer and
devoted humble servt. T. Musgrove.

There is a pattern for a Love-letter Matilda! Did you ever read such
a master-piece of Writing? Such sense, such sentiment, such purity of
Thought, such flow of Language and such unfeigned Love in one sheet?
No, never I can answer for it, since a Musgrove is not to be met with
by every Girl. Oh! how I long to be with him! I intend to send him the
following in answer to his Letter tomorrow.

My dearest Musgrove--. Words cannot express how happy your Letter made
me; I thought I should have cried for joy, for I love you better than
any body in the World. I think you the most amiable, and the handsomest
Man in England, and so to be sure you are. I never read so sweet a
Letter in my Life. Do write me another just like it, and tell me you are
in love with me in every other line. I quite die to see you. How shall
we manage to see one another? for we are so much in love that we cannot
live asunder. Oh! my dear Musgrove you cannot think how impatiently I
wait for the death of my Uncle and Aunt--If they will not Die soon, I
beleive I shall run mad, for I get more in love with you every day of my
Life.

How happy your Sister is to enjoy the pleasure of your Company in her
house, and how happy every body in London must be because you are there.
I hope you will be so kind as to write to me again soon, for I never
read such sweet Letters as yours. I am my dearest Musgrove most truly
and faithfully yours for ever and ever Henrietta Halton.

I hope he will like my answer; it is as good a one as I can write
though nothing to his; Indeed I had always heard what a dab he was at
a Love-letter. I saw him you know for the first time at Lady
Scudamores--And when I saw her Ladyship afterwards she asked me how I
liked her Cousin Musgrove?

"Why upon my word said I, I think he is a very handsome young Man."

"I am glad you think so replied she, for he is distractedly in love with
you."

"Law! Lady Scudamore said I, how can you talk so ridiculously?"

"Nay, t'is very true answered she, I assure you, for he was in love with
you from the first moment he beheld you."

"I wish it may be true said I, for that is the only kind of love I
would give a farthing for--There is some sense in being in love at first
sight."

"Well, I give you Joy of your conquest, replied Lady Scudamore, and
I beleive it to have been a very complete one; I am sure it is not a
contemptible one, for my Cousin is a charming young fellow, has seen a
great deal of the World, and writes the best Love-letters I ever read."

This made me very happy, and I was excessively pleased with my conquest.
However, I thought it was proper to give myself a few Airs--so I said to
her--

"This is all very pretty Lady Scudamore, but you know that we young
Ladies