esents however as wholly unavoidable, that I am forced to recollect
how many successive springs her ladyship spent in town, while her
daughter was left in Staffordshire to the care of servants, or a
governess very little better, to prevent my believing what she says.

If her manners have so great an influence on my resentful heart, you
may judge how much more strongly they operate on Mr. Vernon's generous
temper. I wish I could be as well satisfied as he is, that it was really
her choice to leave Langford for Churchhill; and if she had not stayed
there for months before she discovered that her friend's manner of
living did not suit her situation or feelings, I might have believed
that concern for the loss of such a husband as Mr. Vernon, to whom her
own behaviour was far from unexceptionable, might for a time make her
wish for retirement. But I cannot forget the length of her visit to the
Mainwarings, and when I reflect on the different mode of life which she
led with them from that to which she must now submit, I can only suppose
that the wish of establishing her reputation by following though late
the path of propriety, occasioned her removal from a family where she
must in reality have been particularly happy. Your friend Mr. Smith's
story, however, cannot be quite correct, as she corresponds regularly
with Mrs. Mainwaring. At any rate it must be exaggerated. It is scarcely
possible that two men should be so grossly deceived by her at once.

Yours, &c.,

CATHERINE VERNON





VII


LADY SUSAN VERNON TO MRS. JOHNSON


Churchhill.


My dear Alicia,--You are very good in taking notice of Frederica, and
I am grateful for it as a mark of your friendship; but as I cannot have
any doubt of the warmth of your affection, I am far from exacting so
heavy a sacrifice. She is a stupid girl, and has nothing to recommend
her. I would not, therefore, on my account, have you encumber one moment
of your precious time by sending for her to Edward Street, especially
as every visit is so much deducted from the grand affair of education,
which I really wish to have attended to while she remains at Miss
Summers's. I want her to play and sing with some portion of taste and
a good deal of assurance, as she has my hand and arm and a tolerable
voice. I was so much indulged in my infant years that I was never
obliged to attend to anything, and consequently am without the
accomplishments which are now necessary to finish a pretty woman. Not
that I am an advocate for the prevailing fashion of acquiring a perfect
knowledge of all languages, arts, and sciences. It is throwing time
away to be mistress of French, Italian, and German: music, singing,
and drawing, &c., will gain a woman some applause, but will not add
one lover to her list--grace and manner, after all, are of the greatest
importance. I do not mean, therefore, that Frederica's acquirements
should be more than superficial, and I flatter myself that she will not
remain long enough at school to understand anything thoroughly. I hope
to see her the wife of Sir James within a twelvemonth. You know on what
I ground my hope, and it is certainly a good foundation, for school must
be very humiliating to a girl of Frederica's age. And, by-the-by, you
had better not invite her any more on that account, as I wish her to
find her situation as unpleasant as possible. I am sure of Sir James at
any time, and could make him renew his application by a line. I shall
trouble you meanwhile to prevent his forming any other attachment when
he comes to town. Ask him to your house occasionally, and talk to him of
Frederica, that he may not forget her. Upon the whole, I commend my own
conduct in this affair extremely, and regard it as a very happy instance
of circumspection and tenderness. Some mothers would have insisted on
their daughter's accepting so good an offer on the first overture; but I
could not reconcile it to myself to force Frederica into a marriage from
which her heart revolted, and instead of adopting so harsh a measure
merely propose to make it her own choice, by rendering her thoroughly
uncomfortable till she does accept him--but enough of this tiresome
girl. You may well wonder how I contrive to pass my time here, and for
the first week it was insufferably dull. Now, however, we begin to mend,
our party is enlarged by Mrs. Vernon's brother, a handsome young man,
who promises me some amusement. There is something about him which
rather interests me, a sort of sauciness and familiarity which I shall
teach him to correct. He is lively, and seems clever, and when I have
inspired him with greater respect for me than his sister's kind offices
have implanted, he may be an agreeable flirt. There is exquisite
pleasure in subduing an insolent spirit, in making a person
predetermined to dislike acknowledge one's superiority. I have
disconcerted him already by my calm reserve, and it shall be my
endeavour to humble the pride of these self important De Courcys still
lower, to convince Mrs. Vernon that her sisterly cautions have been
bestowed in vain, and to persuade Reginald that she has scandalously
belied me.