u, a Woman whose
distresses and misfortunes were so great as almost to make me who hate
her, pity her. It was in this reign that Joan of Arc lived and made such
a ROW among the English. They should not have burnt her--but they did.
There were several Battles between the Yorkists and Lancastrians, in
which the former (as they ought) usually conquered. At length they were
entirely overcome; The King was murdered--The Queen was sent home--and
Edward the 4th ascended the Throne.


EDWARD the 4th

This Monarch was famous only for his Beauty and his Courage, of which
the Picture we have here given of him, and his undaunted Behaviour
in marrying one Woman while he was engaged to another, are sufficient
proofs. His Wife was Elizabeth Woodville, a Widow who, poor Woman! was
afterwards confined in a Convent by that Monster of Iniquity and Avarice
Henry the 7th. One of Edward's Mistresses was Jane Shore, who has had
a play written about her, but it is a tragedy and therefore not worth
reading. Having performed all these noble actions, his Majesty died, and
was succeeded by his son.


EDWARD the 5th

This unfortunate Prince lived so little a while that nobody had him to
draw his picture. He was murdered by his Uncle's Contrivance, whose name
was Richard the 3rd.


RICHARD the 3rd

The Character of this Prince has been in general very severely treated
by Historians, but as he was a YORK, I am rather inclined to suppose him
a very respectable Man. It has indeed been confidently asserted that he
killed his two Nephews and his Wife, but it has also been declared that
he did not kill his two Nephews, which I am inclined to beleive true;
and if this is the case, it may also be affirmed that he did not kill
his Wife, for if Perkin Warbeck was really the Duke of York, why might
not Lambert Simnel be the Widow of Richard. Whether innocent or guilty,
he did not reign long in peace, for Henry Tudor E. of Richmond as great
a villain as ever lived, made a great fuss about getting the Crown and
having killed the King at the battle of Bosworth, he succeeded to it.


HENRY the 7th

This Monarch soon after his accession married the Princess Elizabeth of
York, by which alliance he plainly proved that he thought his own right
inferior to hers, tho' he pretended to the contrary. By this Marriage he
had two sons and two daughters, the elder of which Daughters was married
to the King of Scotland and had the happiness of being grandmother
to one of the first Characters in the World. But of HER, I shall have
occasion to speak more at large in future. The youngest, Mary, married
first the King of France and secondly the D. of Suffolk, by whom she had
one daughter, afterwards the Mother of Lady Jane Grey, who tho' inferior
to her lovely Cousin the Queen of Scots, was yet an amiable young woman
and famous for reading Greek while other people were hunting. It was in
the reign of Henry the 7th that Perkin Warbeck and Lambert Simnel before
mentioned made their appearance, the former of whom was set in the
stocks, took shelter in Beaulieu Abbey, and was beheaded with the Earl
of Warwick, and the latter was taken into the Kings kitchen. His Majesty
died and was succeeded by his son Henry whose only merit was his not
being quite so bad as his daughter Elizabeth.


HENRY the 8th

It would be an affront to my Readers were I to suppose that they were
not as well acquainted with the particulars of this King's reign as I am
myself. It will therefore be saving THEM the task of reading again what
they have read before, and MYSELF the trouble of writing what I do not
perfectly recollect, by giving only a slight sketch of the principal
Events which marked his reign. Among these may be ranked Cardinal
Wolsey's telling the father Abbott of Leicester Abbey that "he was come
to lay his bones among them," the reformation in Religion and the King's
riding through the streets of London with Anna Bullen. It is however
but Justice, and my Duty to declare that this amiable Woman was entirely
innocent of the Crimes with which she was accused, and of which her
Beauty, her Elegance, and her Sprightliness were sufficient proofs, not
to mention her solemn Protestations of Innocence, the weakness of the
Charges against her, and the King's Character; all of which add some
confirmation, tho' perhaps but slight ones when in comparison with those
before alledged in her favour. Tho' I do not profess giving many dates,
yet as I think it proper to give some and shall of course make choice
of those which it is most necessary for the Reader to know, I think it
right to inform him that her letter to the King was dated on the 6th of
May. The Crimes and Cruelties of this Prince, were too numerous to be
mentioned, (as this history I trust has fully shown;) and nothing can
be said in his vindication, but that his abolishing Religious Houses and
leaving them to the ruinous depredations of time has been of infinite
use to the landscape of England in general, which probably was a
principal motive for his doing it, since otherwise why should a Man who
was of no Religion himself be at so much trouble to abolish 