ially when that marriage had taken place, which
would have given him the assistance of her conscience in subduing her
first inclination, and brought them very often together. Would he have
persevered, and uprightly, Fanny must have been his reward, and a reward
very voluntarily bestowed, within a reasonable period from Edmund's
marrying Mary.

Had he done as he intended, and as he knew he ought, by going down to
Everingham after his return from Portsmouth, he might have been deciding
his own happy destiny. But he was pressed to stay for Mrs. Fraser's
party; his staying was made of flattering consequence, and he was to
meet Mrs. Rushworth there. Curiosity and vanity were both engaged, and
the temptation of immediate pleasure was too strong for a mind unused to
make any sacrifice to right: he resolved to defer his Norfolk journey,
resolved that writing should answer the purpose of it, or that its
purpose was unimportant, and staid. He saw Mrs. Rushworth, was received
by her with a coldness which ought to have been repulsive, and have
established apparent indifference between them for ever; but he was
mortified, he could not bear to be thrown off by the woman whose smiles
had been so wholly at his command: he must exert himself to subdue so
proud a display of resentment; it was anger on Fanny's account; he must
get the better of it, and make Mrs. Rushworth Maria Bertram again in her
treatment of himself.

In this spirit he began the attack, and by animated perseverance had
soon re-established the sort of familiar intercourse, of gallantry,
of flirtation, which bounded his views; but in triumphing over the
discretion which, though beginning in anger, might have saved them both,
he had put himself in the power of feelings on her side more strong
than he had supposed. She loved him; there was no withdrawing attentions
avowedly dear to her. He was entangled by his own vanity, with as little
excuse of love as possible, and without the smallest inconstancy of mind
towards her cousin. To keep Fanny and the Bertrams from a knowledge of
what was passing became his first object. Secrecy could not have been
more desirable for Mrs. Rushworth's credit than he felt it for his own.
When he returned from Richmond, he would have been glad to see Mrs.
Rushworth no more. All that followed was the result of her imprudence;
and he went off with her at last, because he could not help it,
regretting Fanny even at the moment, but regretting her infinitely more
when all the bustle of the intrigue was over, and a very few months had
taught him, by the force of contrast, to place a yet higher value on the
sweetness of her temper, the purity of her mind, and the excellence of
her principles.

That punishment, the public punishment of disgrace, should in a just
measure attend _his_ share of the offence is, we know, not one of the
barriers which society gives to virtue. In this world the penalty is
less equal than could be wished; but without presuming to look forward
to a juster appointment hereafter, we may fairly consider a man of
sense, like Henry Crawford, to be providing for himself no small
portion of vexation and regret: vexation that must rise sometimes
to self-reproach, and regret to wretchedness, in having so requited
hospitality, so injured family peace, so forfeited his best, most
estimable, and endeared acquaintance, and so lost the woman whom he had
rationally as well as passionately loved.

After what had passed to wound and alienate the two families, the
continuance of the Bertrams and Grants in such close neighbourhood would
have been most distressing; but the absence of the latter, for some
months purposely lengthened, ended very fortunately in the necessity, or
at least the practicability, of a permanent removal. Dr. Grant, through
an interest on which he had almost ceased to form hopes, succeeded to
a stall in Westminster, which, as affording an occasion for leaving
Mansfield, an excuse for residence in London, and an increase of income
to answer the expenses of the change, was highly acceptable to those who
went and those who staid.

Mrs. Grant, with a temper to love and be loved, must have gone with some
regret from the scenes and people she had been used to; but the same
happiness of disposition must in any place, and any society, secure her
a great deal to enjoy, and she had again a home to offer Mary; and Mary
had had enough of her own friends, enough of vanity, ambition, love, and
disappointment in the course of the last half-year, to be in need of the
true kindness of her sister's heart, and the rational tranquillity
of her ways. They lived together; and when Dr. Grant had brought on
apoplexy and death, by three great institutionary dinners in one week,
they still lived together; for Mary, though perfectly resolved against
ever attaching herself to a younger brother again, was long in finding
among the dashing representatives, or idle heir-apparents, who were at
the command of her beauty, and her L20,000, any one who could satisfy the
better taste she had acquired at Mansfield, whose character and manners
could authorise a hope o