bout 14_l._, to pay on her account; but the
bill shall not be sent in till his return to town. I hope he comes to
you in good health, and in spirits as good as a first return to
Godmersham can allow. With his nephews he will force himself to be
cheerful, till he really is so. Send me some intelligence of Eliza; it
is a long while since I have heard of her.

We have had snow on the ground here almost a week; it is now going, but
Southampton must boast no longer. We all send our love to Edward junior
and his brothers, and I hope Speculation is generally liked.

Fare you well.

                                    Yours affectionately,
                                                        J. AUSTEN.

My mother has not been out of doors this week, but she keeps pretty
well. We have received through Bookham an indifferent account of your
godmother.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.

FOOTNOTE:

[10] Godmersham, Edward Austen's place.




XXXI.


                            CASTLE SQUARE, Tuesday (January 10, 1809).

I AM not surprised, my dear Cassandra, that you did not find my last
letter very full of matter, and I wish this may not have the same
deficiency; but we are doing nothing ourselves to write about, and I am
therefore quite dependent upon the communications of our friends, or my
own wits.

This post brought me two interesting letters, yours and one from
Bookham, in answer to an inquiry of mine about your good godmother, of
whom we had lately received a very alarming account from Paragon. Miss
Arnold was the informant then, and she spoke of Mrs. E. L. having been
very dangerously ill, and attended by a physician from Oxford.

Your letter to Adlestrop may perhaps bring you information from the
spot, but in case it should not, I must tell you that she is better;
though Dr. Bourne cannot yet call her out of danger; such was the case
last Wednesday, and Mrs. Cooke's having had no later account is a
favorable sign. I am to hear again from the latter next week, but not
this, if everything goes on well.

Her disorder is an inflammation on the lungs, arising from a severe
chill taken in church last Sunday three weeks; her mind all pious
composure, as may be supposed. George Cooke was there when her illness
began; his brother has now taken his place. Her age and feebleness
considered, one's fears cannot but preponderate, though her amendment
has already surpassed the expectation of the physician at the beginning.
I am sorry to add that Becky is laid up with a complaint of the same
kind.

I am very glad to have the time of your return at all fixed; we all
rejoice in it, and it will not be later than I had expected. I dare not
hope that Mary and Miss Curling may be detained at Portsmouth so long or
half so long; but it would be worth twopence to have it so.

The "St. Albans" perhaps may soon be off to help bring home what may
remain by this time of our poor army, whose state seems dreadfully
critical. The "Regency" seems to have been heard of only here; my most
political correspondents make no mention of it. Unlucky that I should
have wasted so much reflection on the subject.

I can now answer your question to my mother more at large, and likewise
more at small--with equal perspicuity and minuteness; for the very day
of our leaving Southampton is fixed; and if the knowledge is of no use
to Edward, I am sure it will give him pleasure. Easter Monday, April 3,
is the day; we are to sleep that night at Alton, and be with our friends
at Bookham the next, if they are then at home; there we remain till the
following Monday, and on Tuesday, April 11, hope to be at Godmersham. If
the Cookes are absent, we shall finish our journey on the 5th. These
plans depend of course upon the weather, but I hope there will be no
settled cold to delay us materially.

To make you amends for being at Bookham, it is in contemplation to spend
a few days at Baiton Lodge in our way out of Kent. The hint of such a
visit is most affectionately welcomed by Mrs. Birch, in one of her odd
pleasant letters lately, in which she speaks of us with the usual
distinguished kindness, declaring that she shall not be at all satisfied
unless a very handsome present is made us immediately from one quarter.

Fanny's not coming with you is no more than we expected; and as we have
not the hope of a bed for her, and shall see her so soon afterwards at
Godmersham, we cannot wish it otherwise.

William will be quite recovered, I trust, by the time you receive this.
What a comfort his cross-stitch must have been! Pray tell him that I
should like to see his work very much. I hope our answers this morning
have given satisfaction; we had great pleasure in Uncle Deedes' packet;
and pray let Marianne know, in private, that I think she is quite right
to work a rug for Uncle John's coffee urn, and that I am sure it must
give great pleasure to herself now, and to him when he receives it.

The preference of Brag over Speculation does not greatly surprise me, I
believe, because I feel the same myself; but it mortifies me deeply,
because Speculation wa