in Enjoyments of this World, would not that
Phaeton and the Life of Cardinal Wolsey afford a thinking Mind!" said I
to Sophia as we were hastening to the field of Action.

She had not time to answer me, for every thought was now engaged by the
horrid spectacle before us. Two Gentlemen most elegantly attired
but weltering in their blood was what first struck our Eyes--we
approached--they were Edward and Augustus--. Yes dearest Marianne they
were our Husbands. Sophia shreiked and fainted on the ground--I screamed
and instantly ran mad--. We remained thus mutually deprived of our
senses, some minutes, and on regaining them were deprived of them
again. For an Hour and a Quarter did we continue in this unfortunate
situation--Sophia fainting every moment and I running mad as often. At
length a groan from the hapless Edward (who alone retained any share
of life) restored us to ourselves. Had we indeed before imagined that
either of them lived, we should have been more sparing of our Greif--but
as we had supposed when we first beheld them that they were no more,
we knew that nothing could remain to be done but what we were about.
No sooner did we therefore hear my Edward's groan than postponing our
lamentations for the present, we hastily ran to the Dear Youth and
kneeling on each side of him implored him not to die--. "Laura (said He
fixing his now languid Eyes on me) I fear I have been overturned."

I was overjoyed to find him yet sensible.

"Oh! tell me Edward (said I) tell me I beseech you before you die, what
has befallen you since that unhappy Day in which Augustus was arrested
and we were separated--"

"I will" (said he) and instantly fetching a deep sigh, Expired--. Sophia
immediately sank again into a swoon--. MY greif was more audible. My
Voice faltered, My Eyes assumed a vacant stare, my face became as pale
as Death, and my senses were considerably impaired--.

"Talk not to me of Phaetons (said I, raving in a frantic, incoherent
manner)--Give me a violin--. I'll play to him and sooth him in his
melancholy Hours--Beware ye gentle Nymphs of Cupid's Thunderbolts, avoid
the piercing shafts of Jupiter--Look at that grove of Firs--I see a Leg
of Mutton--They told me Edward was not Dead; but they deceived me--they
took him for a cucumber--" Thus I continued wildly exclaiming on my
Edward's Death--. For two Hours did I rave thus madly and should not
then have left off, as I was not in the least fatigued, had not Sophia
who was just recovered from her swoon, intreated me to consider that
Night was now approaching and that the Damps began to fall. "And
whither shall we go (said I) to shelter us from either?" "To that white
Cottage." (replied she pointing to a neat Building which rose up amidst
the grove of Elms and which I had not before observed--) I agreed and we
instantly walked to it--we knocked at the door--it was opened by an old
woman; on being requested to afford us a Night's Lodging, she informed
us that her House was but small, that she had only two Bedrooms, but
that However we should be wellcome to one of them. We were satisfied and
followed the good woman into the House where we were greatly cheered
by the sight of a comfortable fire--. She was a widow and had only one
Daughter, who was then just seventeen--One of the best of ages; but
alas! she was very plain and her name was Bridget..... Nothing therfore
could be expected from her--she could not be supposed to possess either
exalted Ideas, Delicate Feelings or refined Sensibilities--. She was
nothing more than a mere good-tempered, civil and obliging young woman;
as such we could scarcely dislike here--she was only an Object of
Contempt--. Adeiu Laura.




LETTER the 14th LAURA in continuation

Arm yourself my amiable young Freind with all the philosophy you are
Mistress of; summon up all the fortitude you possess, for alas! in the
perusal of the following Pages your sensibility will be most severely
tried. Ah! what were the misfortunes I had before experienced and which
I have already related to you, to the one I am now going to inform you
of. The Death of my Father and my Mother and my Husband though almost
more than my gentle Nature could support, were trifles in comparison
to the misfortune I am now proceeding to relate. The morning after
our arrival at the Cottage, Sophia complained of a violent pain in her
delicate limbs, accompanied with a disagreable Head-ake She attributed
it to a cold caught by her continued faintings in the open air as the
Dew was falling the Evening before. This I feared was but too probably
the case; since how could it be otherwise accounted for that I should
have escaped the same indisposition, but by supposing that the
bodily Exertions I had undergone in my repeated fits of frenzy had so
effectually circulated and warmed my Blood as to make me proof against
the chilling Damps of Night, whereas, Sophia lying totally inactive
on the ground must have been exposed to all their severity. I was most
seriously alarmed by her illness which trifling as it may appear to
you, a certain instinctive sensibility whispered me, would in the End be
fat