er,
their mutual attachment became very strong. After settling her at
Thornton Lacey with every kind attention to her comfort, the object of
almost every day was to see her there, or to get her away from it.

Selfishly dear as she had long been to Lady Bertram, she could not be
parted with willingly by _her_. No happiness of son or niece could make
her wish the marriage. But it was possible to part with her, because
Susan remained to supply her place. Susan became the stationary niece,
delighted to be so; and equally well adapted for it by a readiness of
mind, and an inclination for usefulness, as Fanny had been by sweetness
of temper, and strong feelings of gratitude. Susan could never be
spared. First as a comfort to Fanny, then as an auxiliary, and last as
her substitute, she was established at Mansfield, with every appearance
of equal permanency. Her more fearless disposition and happier nerves
made everything easy to her there. With quickness in understanding
the tempers of those she had to deal with, and no natural timidity to
restrain any consequent wishes, she was soon welcome and useful to all;
and after Fanny's removal succeeded so naturally to her influence over
the hourly comfort of her aunt, as gradually to become, perhaps, the
most beloved of the two. In _her_ usefulness, in Fanny's excellence,
in William's continued good conduct and rising fame, and in the general
well-doing and success of the other members of the family, all assisting
to advance each other, and doing credit to his countenance and aid, Sir
Thomas saw repeated, and for ever repeated, reason to rejoice in what he
had done for them all, and acknowledge the advantages of early hardship
and discipline, and the consciousness of being born to struggle and
endure.

With so much true merit and true love, and no want of fortune and
friends, the happiness of the married cousins must appear as secure as
earthly happiness can be. Equally formed for domestic life, and attached
to country pleasures, their home was the home of affection and comfort;
and to complete the picture of good, the acquisition of Mansfield
living, by the death of Dr. Grant, occurred just after they had been
married long enough to begin to want an increase of income, and feel
their distance from the paternal abode an inconvenience.

On that event they removed to Mansfield; and the Parsonage there,
which, under each of its two former owners, Fanny had never been able
to approach but with some painful sensation of restraint or alarm, soon
grew as dear to her heart, and as thoroughly perfect in her eyes, as
everything else within the view and patronage of Mansfield Park had long
been.


THE END



F