and Mary Cooke, and I spent the greatest part of the evening very
pleasantly with them. The drawing-room being soon hotter than we liked,
we placed ourselves in the connecting passage, which was comparatively
cool, and gave us all the advantage of the music at a pleasant distance,
as well as that of the first view of every new-comer.

I was quite surrounded by acquaintance, especially gentlemen; and what
with Mr. Hampson, Mr. Seymour, Mr. W. Knatchbull, Mr. Guillemarde, Mr.
Cure, a Captain Simpson, brother to _the_ Captain Simpson, besides Mr.
Walter and Mr. Egerton, in addition to the Cookes, and Miss Beckford,
and Miss Middleton, I had quite as much upon my hands as I could do.

Poor Miss B. has been suffering again from her old complaint, and looks
thinner than ever. She certainly goes to Cheltenham the beginning of
June. We were all delight and cordiality, of course. Miss M. seems very
happy, but has not beauty enough to figure in London.

Including everybody we were sixty-six,--which was considerably more than
Eliza had expected, and quite enough to fill the back drawing-room and
leave a few to be scattered about in the other and in the passage.

The music was extremely good. It opened (tell Fanny) with "Poike de Parp
pirs praise pof Prapela;" and of the other glees I remember, "In peace
love tunes," "Rosabelle," "The Red Cross Knight," and "Poor Insect."
Between the songs were lessons on the harp, or harp and pianoforte
together; and the harp-player was Wiepart, whose name seems famous,
though new to me. There was one female singer, a short Miss Davis, all
in blue, bringing up for the public line, whose voice was said to be
very fine indeed; and all the performers gave great satisfaction by
doing what they were paid for, and giving themselves no airs. No amateur
could be persuaded to do anything.

The house was not clear till after twelve. If you wish to hear more of
it, you must put your questions, but I seem rather to have exhausted
than spared the subject.

This said Captain Simpson told us, on the authority of some other
Captain just arrived from Halifax, that Charles was bringing the
"Cleopatra" home, and that she was probably by this time in the
Channel; but as Captain S. was certainly in liquor, we must not quite
depend on it. It must give one a sort of expectation, however, and will
prevent my writing to him any more. I would rather he should not reach
England till I am at home, and the Steventon party gone.

My mother and Martha both write with great satisfaction of Anna's
behavior. She is quite an Anna with variations, but she cannot have
reached her last, for that is always the most flourishing and showy; she
is at about her third or fourth, which are generally simple and pretty.

Your lilacs are in leaf, ours are in bloom. The horse-chestnuts are
quite out, and the elms almost. I had a pleasant walk in Kensington
Gardens on Sunday with Henry, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Tilson; everything was
fresh and beautiful.

We did go to the play, after all, on Saturday. We went to the Lyceum,
and saw the "Hypocrite," an old play taken from Molière's "Tartuffe,"
and were well entertained. Dowton and Mathews were the good actors; Mrs.
Edwin was the heroine, and her performance is just what it used to be. I
have no chance of seeing Mrs. Siddons; she did act on Monday, but as
Henry was told by the box-keeper that he did not think she would, the
plans, and all thought of it, were given up. I should particularly have
liked seeing her in "Constance," and could swear at her with little
effort for disappointing me.

Henry has been to the Water-Color Exhibition, which opened on Monday,
and is to meet us there again some morning. If Eliza cannot go (and she
has a cold at present), Miss Beaty will be invited to be my companion.
Henry leaves town on Sunday afternoon, but he means to write soon
himself to Edward, and will tell his own plans.

The tea is this moment setting out.

Do not have your colored muslin unless you really want it, because I am
afraid I could not send it to the coach without giving trouble here.

Eliza caught her cold on Sunday in our way to the D'Entraigues. The
horses actually gibbed on this side of Hyde Park Gate: a load of fresh
gravel made it a formidable hill to them, and they refused the collar; I
believe there was a sore shoulder to irritate. Eliza was frightened, and
we got out, and were detained in the evening air several minutes. The
cold is in her chest, but she takes care of herself, and I hope it may
not last long.

This engagement prevented Mr. Walter's staying late,--he had his coffee
and went away. Eliza enjoyed her evening very much, and means to
cultivate the acquaintance; and I see nothing to dislike in them but
their taking quantities of snuff. Monsieur, the old Count, is a very
fine-looking man, with quiet manners, good enough for an Englishman,
and, I believe, is a man of great information and taste. He has some
fine paintings, which delighted Henry as much as the son's music
gratified Eliza; and among them a miniature of Philip V. of Spain, Louis
XIV.'s grandson, which exactly suited my capacit