ear you should be unhappy about him. Think
of his principles; think of his father's objection, of want of money,
etc., etc. But I am doing no good; no, all that I urge against him will
rather make you take his part more,--sweet, perverse Fanny.

And now I will tell you that we like your Henry to the utmost, to the
very top of the glass, quite brimful. He is a very pleasing young man. I
do not see how he could be mended. He does really bid fair to be
everything his father and sister could wish; and William I love very
much indeed, and so we do all; he is quite our own William. In short, we
are very comfortable together; that is, we can answer for ourselves.

Mrs. Deedes is as welcome as May to all our benevolence to her son; we
only lamented that we could not do more, and that the 50_l._ note we
slipped into his hand at parting was necessarily the limit of our
offering. Good Mrs. Deedes! Scandal and gossip; yes, I dare say you are
well stocked, but I am very fond of Mrs. ---- for reasons good. Thank
you for mentioning her praise of "Emma," etc.

I have contributed the marking to Uncle H.'s shirts, and now they are a
complete memorial of the tender regard of many.

_Friday._--I had no idea when I began this yesterday of sending it
before your brother went back, but I have written away my foolish
thoughts at such a rate that I will not keep them many hours longer to
stare me in the face.

Much obliged for the quadrilles, which I am grown to think pretty
enough, though of course they are very inferior to the cotillons of my
own day.

Ben and Anna walked here last Sunday to hear Uncle Henry, and she looked
so pretty, it was quite a pleasure to see her, so young and so blooming
and so innocent, as if she had never had a wicked thought in her life,
which yet one has some reason to suppose she must have had, if we
believe the doctrine of original sin. I hope Lizzy will have her play
very kindly arranged for her. Henry is generally thought very
good-looking, but not so handsome as Edward. I think I prefer his face.
Wm. is in excellent looks, has a fine appetite, and seems perfectly
well. You will have a great break up at Godmersham in the spring. You
must feel their all going. It is very right, however! Poor Miss C.! I
shall pity her when she begins to understand herself.

Your objection to the quadrilles delighted me exceedingly. Pretty well,
for a lady irrecoverably attached to one person! Sweet Fanny, believe no
such thing of yourself, spread no such malicious slander upon your
understanding within the precincts of your imagination. Do not speak ill
of your sense merely for the gratification of your fancy; yours is sense
which deserves more honorable treatment. You are not in love with him;
you never have been really in love with him.

                                  Yours very affectionately,
                                                       J. AUSTEN.

  Miss KNIGHT,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




LXXIII.


                                         CHAWTON, Thursday (March 13).

AS to making any adequate return for such a letter as yours, my dearest
Fanny, it is absolutely impossible. If I were to labor at it all the
rest of my life, and live to the age of Methuselah, I could never
accomplish anything so long and so perfect; but I cannot let William go
without a few lines of acknowledgment and reply.

I have pretty well done with Mr. ----. By your description, he cannot be
in love with you, however he may try at it; and I could not wish the
match unless there were a great deal of love on his side. I do not know
what to do about Jemima Branfill. What does her dancing away with so
much spirit mean? That she does not care for him, or only wishes to
appear not to care for him? Who can understand a young lady?

Poor Mrs. C. Milles, that she should die on the wrong day at last, after
being about it so long! It was unlucky that the Goodnestone party could
not meet you; and I hope her friendly, obliging, social spirit, which
delighted in drawing people together, was not conscious of the division
and disappointment she was occasioning. I am sorry and surprised that
you speak of her as having little to leave, and must feel for Miss
Milles, though she is Molly, if a material loss of income is to attend
her other loss. Single women have a dreadful propensity for being poor,
which is one very strong argument in favor of matrimony; but I need not
dwell on such arguments with you, pretty dear.

To you I shall say, as I have often said before, Do not be in a hurry,
the right man will come at last; you will in the course of the next two
or three years meet with somebody more generally unexceptionable than
any one you have yet known, who will love you as warmly as possible, and
who will so completely attract you that you will feel you never really
loved before.

Do none of the A.'s ever come to balls now? You have never mentioned
them as being at any. And what do you hear of the Gripps, or of Fanny
and her husband?

Aunt Cassandra walked to Wyards yesterday with Mrs. Digweed. Anna has
had a bad cold, and looks pale. She has just 