 received at home
and countenanced by them all. Sir Thomas would not hear of it; and Mrs.
Norris's anger against Fanny was so much the greater, from considering
_her_ residence there as the motive. She persisted in placing his
scruples to _her_ account, though Sir Thomas very solemnly assured her
that, had there been no young woman in question, had there been no young
person of either sex belonging to him, to be endangered by the society
or hurt by the character of Mrs. Rushworth, he would never have offered
so great an insult to the neighbourhood as to expect it to notice her.
As a daughter, he hoped a penitent one, she should be protected by him,
and secured in every comfort, and supported by every encouragement to do
right, which their relative situations admitted; but farther than _that_
he could not go. Maria had destroyed her own character, and he would
not, by a vain attempt to restore what never could be restored, by
affording his sanction to vice, or in seeking to lessen its disgrace, be
anywise accessory to introducing such misery in another man's family as
he had known himself.

It ended in Mrs. Norris's resolving to quit Mansfield and devote herself
to her unfortunate Maria, and in an establishment being formed for them
in another country, remote and private, where, shut up together with
little society, on one side no affection, on the other no judgment,
it may be reasonably supposed that their tempers became their mutual
punishment.

Mrs. Norris's removal from Mansfield was the great supplementary comfort
of Sir Thomas's life. His opinion of her had been sinking from the day
of his return from Antigua: in every transaction together from that
period, in their daily intercourse, in business, or in chat, she had
been regularly losing ground in his esteem, and convincing him that
either time had done her much disservice, or that he had considerably
over-rated her sense, and wonderfully borne with her manners before. He
had felt her as an hourly evil, which was so much the worse, as there
seemed no chance of its ceasing but with life; she seemed a part of
himself that must be borne for ever. To be relieved from her, therefore,
was so great a felicity that, had she not left bitter remembrances
behind her, there might have been danger of his learning almost to
approve the evil which produced such a good.

She was regretted by no one at Mansfield. She had never been able to
attach even those she loved best; and since Mrs. Rushworth's elopement,
her temper had been in a state of such irritation as to make her
everywhere tormenting. Not even Fanny had tears for aunt Norris, not
even when she was gone for ever.

That Julia escaped better than Maria was owing, in some measure, to a
favourable difference of disposition and circumstance, but in a greater
to her having been less the darling of that very aunt, less flattered
and less spoilt. Her beauty and acquirements had held but a second
place. She had been always used to think herself a little inferior to
Maria. Her temper was naturally the easiest of the two; her feelings,
though quick, were more controllable, and education had not given her so
very hurtful a degree of self-consequence.

She had submitted the best to the disappointment in Henry Crawford.
After the first bitterness of the conviction of being slighted was over,
she had been tolerably soon in a fair way of not thinking of him again;
and when the acquaintance was renewed in town, and Mr. Rushworth's house
became Crawford's object, she had had the merit of withdrawing herself
from it, and of chusing that time to pay a visit to her other friends,
in order to secure herself from being again too much attracted. This had
been her motive in going to her cousin's. Mr. Yates's convenience had
had nothing to do with it. She had been allowing his attentions some
time, but with very little idea of ever accepting him; and had not her
sister's conduct burst forth as it did, and her increased dread of her
father and of home, on that event, imagining its certain consequence
to herself would be greater severity and restraint, made her hastily
resolve on avoiding such immediate horrors at all risks, it is probable
that Mr. Yates would never have succeeded. She had not eloped with any
worse feelings than those of selfish alarm. It had appeared to her the
only thing to be done. Maria's guilt had induced Julia's folly.

Henry Crawford, ruined by early independence and bad domestic example,
indulged in the freaks of a cold-blooded vanity a little too long. Once
it had, by an opening undesigned and unmerited, led him into the way of
happiness. Could he have been satisfied with the conquest of one
amiable woman's affections, could he have found sufficient exultation
in overcoming the reluctance, in working himself into the esteem and
tenderness of Fanny Price, there would have been every probability of
success and felicity for him. His affection had already done something.
Her influence over him had already given him some influence over her.
Would he have deserved more, there can be no doubt that more would have
been obtained, espec