
I have not quite determined how I shall manage about my clothes; perhaps
there may be only my trunk to send by the coach, or there may be a
band-box with it. I have taken your gentle hint, and written to Mrs.
Hill.

The Hoblyns want us to dine with them, but we have refused. When Henry
returns he will be dining out a great deal, I dare say; as he will then
be alone, it will be more desirable; he will be more welcome at every
table, and every invitation more welcome to him. He will not want either
of us again till he is settled in Henrietta Street. This is my present
persuasion. And he will not be settled there--really settled--till late
in the autumn; "he will not be come to bide" till after September.

There is a gentleman in treaty for this house. Gentleman himself is in
the country, but gentleman's friend came to see it the other day, and
seemed pleased on the whole. Gentleman would rather prefer an increased
rent to parting with five hundred guineas at once, and if that is the
only difficulty it will not be minded. Henry is indifferent as to the
which.

Get us the best weather you can for Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. We
are to go to Windsor in our way to Henley, which will be a great
delight. We shall be leaving Sloane Street about twelve, two or three
hours after Charles's party have begun their journey. You will miss
them, but the comfort of getting back into your own room will be great.
And then the tea and sugar!

I fear Miss Clewes is not better, or you would have mentioned it. I
shall not write again unless I have any unexpected communication or
opportunity to tempt me. I enclose Mr. Herington's bill and receipt.

I am very much obliged to Fanny for her letter; it made me laugh
heartily, but I cannot pretend to answer it. Even had I more time, I
should not feel at all sure of the sort of letter that Miss D.[19] would
write. I hope Miss Benn is got well again, and will have a comfortable
dinner with you to-day.

_Monday Evening._--We have been both to the exhibition and Sir J.
Reynolds's, and I am disappointed, for there was nothing like Mrs. D. at
either. I can only imagine that Mr. D. prizes any picture of her too
much to like it should be exposed to the public eye. I can imagine he
would have that sort of feeling,--that mixture of love, pride, and
delicacy.

Setting aside this disappointment, I had great amusement among the
pictures; and the driving about, the carriage being open, was very
pleasant. I liked my solitary elegance very much, and was ready to laugh
all the time at my being where I was. I could not but feel that I had
naturally small right to be parading about London in a barouche.

Henry desires Edward may know that he has just bought three dozen of
claret for him (cheap), and ordered it to be sent down to Chawton.

I should not wonder if we got no farther than Reading on Thursday
evening, and so reach Steventon only to a reasonable dinner-hour the
next day; but whatever I may write or you may imagine, we know it will
be something different. I shall be quiet to-morrow morning; all my
business is done, and I shall only call again upon Mrs. Hoblyn, etc.

Love to your much . . . party.

                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                     J. AUSTEN.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] _Vide_ "Pride and Prejudice."

[19] Miss Darcy.




XLV.


                         HENRIETTA ST., Wednesday (Sept. 15, ½ past 8).

HERE I am, my dearest Cassandra, seated in the breakfast, dining,
sitting room, beginning with all my might. Fanny will join me as soon as
she is dressed, and begin her letter.

We had a very good journey, weather and roads excellent; the three first
stages for 1_s._ 6_d._, and our only misadventure the being delayed
about a quarter of an hour at Kingston for horses, and being obliged to
put up with a pair belonging to a hackney coach and their coachman,
which left no room on the barouche box for Lizzy, who was to have gone
her last stage there as she did the first; consequently we were all
four within, which was a little crowded.

We arrived at a quarter-past four, and were kindly welcomed by the
coachman, and then by his master, and then by William, and then by Mrs.
Pengird, who all met us before we reached the foot of the stairs. Mde.
Bigion was below dressing us a most comfortable dinner of soup, fish,
bouillée, partridges, and an apple tart, which we sat down to soon after
five, after cleaning and dressing ourselves, and feeling that we were
most commodiously disposed of. The little adjoining dressing-room to our
apartment makes Fanny and myself very well off indeed, and as we have
poor Eliza's[20] bed our space is ample every way.

Sace arrived safely about half-past six. At seven we set off in a coach
for the Lyceum; were at home again in about four hours and a half; had
soup and wine and water, and then went to our holes.

Edward finds his quarters very snug and quiet. I must get a softer pen.
This is harder. I am in agonies. I have not yet seen Mr. Crabbe.
Martha's letter is gone to the post.

I am going to write nothing but short sentences. 