in which Modesty, Sense and Dignity are
happily blended, she has a form which at once presents you with Grace,
Elegance and Symmetry. Charlotte who is just sixteen is shorter than her
Sister, and though her figure cannot boast the easy dignity of
Julia's, yet it has a pleasing plumpness which is in a different way as
estimable. She is fair and her face is expressive sometimes of softness
the most bewitching, and at others of Vivacity the most striking.
She appears to have infinite Wit and a good humour unalterable; her
conversation during the half hour they set with us, was replete with
humourous sallies, Bonmots and repartees; while the sensible, the
amiable Julia uttered sentiments of Morality worthy of a heart like her
own. Mr Millar appeared to answer the character I had always received
of him. My Father met him with that look of Love, that social Shake, and
cordial kiss which marked his gladness at beholding an old and valued
freind from whom thro' various circumstances he had been separated
nearly twenty years. Mr Millar observed (and very justly too) that
many events had befallen each during that interval of time, which gave
occasion to the lovely Julia for making most sensible reflections on the
many changes in their situation which so long a period had occasioned,
on the advantages of some, and the disadvantages of others. From
this subject she made a short digression to the instability of human
pleasures and the uncertainty of their duration, which led her to
observe that all earthly Joys must be imperfect. She was proceeding to
illustrate this doctrine by examples from the Lives of great Men when
the Carriage came to the Door and the amiable Moralist with her Father
and Sister was obliged to depart; but not without a promise of spending
five or six months with us on their return. We of course mentioned you,
and I assure you that ample Justice was done to your Merits by all.
"Louisa Clarke (said I) is in general a very pleasant Girl, yet
sometimes her good humour is clouded by Peevishness, Envy and Spite. She
neither wants Understanding or is without some pretensions to Beauty,
but these are so very trifling, that the value she sets on her personal
charms, and the adoration she expects them to be offered are at once a
striking example of her vanity, her pride, and her folly." So said I,
and to my opinion everyone added weight by the concurrence of their own.
Your affectionate Arabella Smythe.




THE FIRST ACT OF A COMEDY

CHARACTERS Popgun Maria Charles Pistolletta Postilion Hostess Chorus of
ploughboys Cook and                      and
Strephon Chloe

SCENE--AN INN

ENTER Hostess, Charles, Maria, and Cook.

Hostess to Maria) If the gentry in the Lion should want beds, shew them
number 9.

Maria) Yes Mistress.--EXIT Maria

Hostess to Cook) If their Honours in the Moon ask for the bill of fare,
give it them.

Cook) I wull, I wull. EXIT Cook.

Hostess to Charles) If their Ladyships in the Sun ring their
Bell--answerit.

Charles) Yes Madam. EXEUNT Severally.


SCENE CHANGES TO THE MOON, and discovers Popgun and Pistoletta.

Pistoletta) Pray papa how far is it to London?

Popgun) My Girl, my Darling, my favourite of all my Children, who art
the picture of thy poor Mother who died two months ago, with whom I am
going to Town to marry to Strephon, and to whom I mean to bequeath my
whole Estate, it wants seven Miles.


SCENE CHANGES TO THE SUN--

ENTER Chloe and a chorus of ploughboys.

Chloe) Where am I? At Hounslow.--Where go I? To London--. What to do? To
be married--. Unto whom? Unto Strephon. Who is he? A Youth. Then I will
sing a song.

SONG I go to Town And when I come down, I shall be married to Streephon *
[*Note the two e's] And that to me will be fun.

Chorus) Be fun, be fun, be fun, And that to me will be fun.

ENTER Cook--Cook) Here is the bill of fare.

Chloe reads) 2 Ducks, a leg of beef, a stinking partridge, and a
tart.--I will have the leg of beef and the partridge. EXIT Cook. And now
I will sing another song.

SONG--I am going to have my dinner, After which I shan't be thinner, I
wish I had here Strephon For he would carve the partridge if it should
be a tough one.

Chorus) Tough one, tough one, tough one For he would carve the partridge
if it Should be a tough one. EXIT Chloe and Chorus.--

SCENE CHANGES TO THE INSIDE OF THE LION.

Enter Strephon and Postilion. Streph:) You drove me from Staines to this
place, from whence I mean to go to Town to marry Chloe. How much is your
due?

Post:) Eighteen pence. Streph:) Alas, my freind, I have but a bad guinea
with which I mean to support myself in Town. But I will pawn to you an
undirected Letter that I received from Chloe.

Post:) Sir, I accept your offer.

END OF THE FIRST ACT.




A LETTER from a YOUNG LADY, whose feelings being too strong for
her Judgement led her into the commission of Errors which her Heart
disapproved.

Many have been the cares and vicissitudes of my past life, my beloved
Ellinor, and the only consolation I feel for their bitterness is that on
a close examination of my conduct, I am convinced that I have strictly
deserved them. I murd