al to her.

Alas! my fears were but too fully justified; she grew gradually
worse--and I daily became more alarmed for her. At length she was
obliged to confine herself solely to the Bed allotted us by our worthy
Landlady--. Her disorder turned to a galloping Consumption and in a few
days carried her off. Amidst all my Lamentations for her (and violent
you may suppose they were) I yet received some consolation in the
reflection of my having paid every attention to her, that could be
offered, in her illness. I had wept over her every Day--had bathed her
sweet face with my tears and had pressed her fair Hands continually in
mine--. "My beloved Laura (said she to me a few Hours before she died)
take warning from my unhappy End and avoid the imprudent conduct which
had occasioned it... Beware of fainting-fits... Though at the time they
may be refreshing and agreable yet beleive me they will in the end, if
too often repeated and at improper seasons, prove destructive to your
Constitution... My fate will teach you this.. I die a Martyr to my greif
for the loss of Augustus.. One fatal swoon has cost me my Life.. Beware
of swoons Dear Laura.... A frenzy fit is not one quarter so pernicious;
it is an exercise to the Body and if not too violent, is I dare say
conducive to Health in its consequences--Run mad as often as you chuse;
but do not faint--"

These were the last words she ever addressed to me.. It was her dieing
Advice to her afflicted Laura, who has ever most faithfully adhered to
it.

After having attended my lamented freind to her Early Grave, I
immediately (tho' late at night) left the detested Village in which
she died, and near which had expired my Husband and Augustus. I had not
walked many yards from it before I was overtaken by a stage-coach,
in which I instantly took a place, determined to proceed in it to
Edinburgh, where I hoped to find some kind some pitying Freind who would
receive and comfort me in my afflictions.

It was so dark when I entered the Coach that I could not distinguish
the Number of my Fellow-travellers; I could only perceive that they were
many. Regardless however of anything concerning them, I gave myself up
to my own sad Reflections. A general silence prevailed--A silence, which
was by nothing interrupted but by the loud and repeated snores of one of
the Party.

"What an illiterate villain must that man be! (thought I to myself) What
a total want of delicate refinement must he have, who can thus shock our
senses by such a brutal noise! He must I am certain be capable of every
bad action! There is no crime too black for such a Character!" Thus
reasoned I within myself, and doubtless such were the reflections of my
fellow travellers.

At length, returning Day enabled me to behold the unprincipled Scoundrel
who had so violently disturbed my feelings. It was Sir Edward the father
of my Deceased Husband. By his side sate Augusta, and on the same seat
with me were your Mother and Lady Dorothea. Imagine my surprise at
finding myself thus seated amongst my old Acquaintance. Great as was my
astonishment, it was yet increased, when on looking out of Windows,
I beheld the Husband of Philippa, with Philippa by his side, on the
Coachbox and when on looking behind I beheld, Philander and Gustavus in
the Basket. "Oh! Heavens, (exclaimed I) is it possible that I should
so unexpectedly be surrounded by my nearest Relations and Connections?"
These words roused the rest of the Party, and every eye was directed to
the corner in which I sat. "Oh! my Isabel (continued I throwing myself
across Lady Dorothea into her arms) receive once more to your Bosom the
unfortunate Laura. Alas! when we last parted in the Vale of Usk, I was
happy in being united to the best of Edwards; I had then a Father and
a Mother, and had never known misfortunes--But now deprived of every
freind but you--"

"What! (interrupted Augusta) is my Brother dead then? Tell us I intreat
you what is become of him?" "Yes, cold and insensible Nymph, (replied I)
that luckless swain your Brother, is no more, and you may now glory in
being the Heiress of Sir Edward's fortune."

Although I had always despised her from the Day I had overheard her
conversation with my Edward, yet in civility I complied with hers and
Sir Edward's intreaties that I would inform them of the whole melancholy
affair. They were greatly shocked--even the obdurate Heart of Sir Edward
and the insensible one of Augusta, were touched with sorrow, by the
unhappy tale. At the request of your Mother I related to them every
other misfortune which had befallen me since we parted. Of the
imprisonment of Augustus and the absence of Edward--of our arrival
in Scotland--of our unexpected Meeting with our Grand-father and our
cousins--of our visit to Macdonald-Hall--of the singular service we
there performed towards Janetta--of her Fathers ingratitude for it.. of
his inhuman Behaviour, unaccountable suspicions, and barbarous treatment
of us, in obliging us to leave the House.. of our lamentations on the
loss of Edward and Augustus and finally of the melancholy Death of my
beloved Companion.

Pity an