l be nine or ten miles nearer, which I hope will have its
due influence.

As for Sally, she means to play John Binns with us, in her anxiety to
belong to our household again. Hitherto she appears a very good servant.

You depend upon finding all your plants dead, I hope. They look very
ill, I understand.

Your silence on the subject of our ball makes me suppose your curiosity
too great for words. We were very well entertained, and could have
stayed longer but for the arrival of my list shoes to convey me home,
and I did not like to keep them waiting in the cold. The room was
tolerably full, and the ball opened by Miss Glyn. The Miss Lances had
partners, Captain Dauvergne's friend appeared in regimentals, Caroline
Maitland had an officer to flirt with, and Mr. John Harrison was deputed
by Captain Smith, being himself absent, to ask me to dance. Everything
went well, you see, especially after we had tucked Mrs. Lance's
neckerchief in behind and fastened it with a pin.

We had a very full and agreeable account of Mr. Hammond's ball from Anna
last night; the same fluent pen has sent similar information, I know,
into Kent. She seems to have been as happy as one could wish her, and
the complacency of her mamma in doing the honors of the evening must
have made her pleasure almost as great. The grandeur of the meeting was
beyond my hopes. I should like to have seen Anna's looks and
performance, but that sad cropped head must have injured the former.

Martha pleases herself with believing that if I had kept her counsel you
would never have heard of Dr. M.'s late behavior, as if the very slight
manner in which I mentioned it could have been all on which you found
your judgment. I do not endeavor to undeceive her, because I wish her
happy, at all events, and know how highly she prizes happiness of any
kind. She is, moreover, so full of kindness for us both, and sends you
in particular so many good wishes about your finger, that I am willing
to overlook a venial fault, and as Dr. M. is a clergyman, their
attachment, however immoral, has a decorous air. Adieu, sweet You. This
is grievous news from Spain. It is well that Dr. Moore was spared the
knowledge of such a son's death.

                                Yours affectionately,      J. AUSTEN.

Anna's hand gets better and better; it begins to be too good for any
consequence.

We send best love to dear little Lizzy and Marianne in particular.

The Portsmouth paper gave a melancholy history of a poor mad woman,
escaped from confinement, who said her husband and daughter, of the name
of Payne, lived at Ashford, in Kent. Do you own them?

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] "Cecilia" Beverley, the heroine of Miss Burney's novel.

[12] Fanny Austen, afterward Lady Edward Knatchbull.




XXXIV.


                                  CASTLE SQUARE, Monday (January 30).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I was not much surprised yesterday by the agreeable
surprise of your letter, and extremely glad to receive the assurance of
your finger being well again.

Here is such a wet day as never was seen. I wish the poor little girls
had better weather for their journey; they must amuse themselves with
watching the raindrops down the windows. Sackree, I suppose, feels quite
broken-hearted. I cannot have done with the weather without observing
how delightfully mild it is; I am sure Fanny must enjoy it with us.
Yesterday was a very blowing day; we got to church, however, which we
had not been able to do for two Sundays before.

I am not at all ashamed about the name of the novel, having been guilty
of no insult toward your handwriting; the diphthong I always saw, but
knowing how fond you were of adding a vowel wherever you could, I
attributed it to that alone, and the knowledge of the truth does the
book no service; the only merit it could have was in the name of Caleb,
which has an honest, unpretending sound, but in Coelebs there is
pedantry and affectation. Is it written only to classical scholars?

I shall now try to say only what is necessary, I am weary of meandering;
so expect a vast deal of small matter, concisely told, in the next two
pages.

Mrs. Cooke has been very dangerously ill, but is now, I hope, safe. I
had a letter last week from George, Mary being too busy to write, and at
that time the disorder was called of the typhus kind, and their alarm
considerable, but yesterday brought me a much better account from Mary,
the origin of the complaint being now ascertained to be bilious, and the
strong medicines requisite promising to be effectual. Mrs. E. L. is so
much recovered as to get into the dressing-room every day.

A letter from Hamstall gives us the history of Sir Tho. Williams's
return. The Admiral, whoever he might he, took a fancy to the "Neptune,"
and having only a worn-out 74 to offer in lieu of it, Sir Tho. declined
such a command, and is come home passenger. Lucky man! to have so fair
an opportunity of escape. I hope his wife allows herself to be happy on
the occasion, and does not give all her thoughts to being nervous.

A great event hap