 who are Heiresses must not throw ourselves away upon Men who have
no fortune at all."

"My dear Miss Halton said she, I am as much convinced of that as you can
be, and I do assure you that I should be the last person to encourage
your marrying anyone who had not some pretensions to expect a fortune
with you. Mr Musgrove is so far from being poor that he has an estate of
several hundreds an year which is capable of great Improvement, and an
excellent House, though at Present it is not quite in repair."

"If that is the case replied I, I have nothing more to say against
him, and if as you say he is an informed young Man and can write a
good Love-letter, I am sure I have no reason to find fault with him
for admiring me, tho' perhaps I may not marry him for all that Lady
Scudamore."

"You are certainly under no obligation to marry him answered her
Ladyship, except that which love himself will dictate to you, for if I
am not greatly mistaken you are at this very moment unknown to yourself,
cherishing a most tender affection for him."

"Law, Lady Scudamore replied I blushing how can you think of such a
thing?"

"Because every look, every word betrays it, answered she; Come my dear
Henrietta, consider me as a freind, and be sincere with me--Do not you
prefer Mr Musgrove to any man of your acquaintance?"

"Pray do not ask me such questions Lady Scudamore, said I turning away
my head, for it is not fit for me to answer them."

"Nay my Love replied she, now you confirm my suspicions. But why
Henrietta should you be ashamed to own a well-placed Love, or why refuse
to confide in me?"

"I am not ashamed to own it; said I taking Courage. I do not refuse to
confide in you or blush to say that I do love your cousin Mr Musgrove,
that I am sincerely attached to him, for it is no disgrace to love a
handsome Man. If he were plain indeed I might have had reason to be
ashamed of a passion which must have been mean since the object would
have been unworthy. But with such a figure and face, and such beautiful
hair as your Cousin has, why should I blush to own that such superior
merit has made an impression on me."

"My sweet Girl (said Lady Scudamore embracing me with great affection)
what a delicate way of thinking you have in these matters, and what a
quick discernment for one of your years! Oh! how I honour you for such
Noble Sentiments!"

"Do you Ma'am said I; You are vastly obliging. But pray Lady Scudamore
did your Cousin himself tell you of his affection for me I shall like
him the better if he did, for what is a Lover without a Confidante?"

"Oh! my Love replied she, you were born for each other. Every word
you say more deeply convinces me that your Minds are actuated by the
invisible power of simpathy, for your opinions and sentiments so exactly
coincide. Nay, the colour of your Hair is not very different. Yes my
dear Girl, the poor despairing Musgrove did reveal to me the story of
his Love--. Nor was I surprised at it--I know not how it was, but I had
a kind of presentiment that he would be in love with you."

"Well, but how did he break it to you?"

"It was not till after supper. We were sitting round the fire
together talking on indifferent subjects, though to say the truth the
Conversation was cheifly on my side for he was thoughtful and silent,
when on a sudden he interrupted me in the midst of something I was
saying, by exclaiming in a most Theatrical tone--

Yes I'm in love I feel it now And Henrietta Halton has undone me

"Oh! What a sweet way replied I, of declaring his Passion! To make such
a couple of charming lines about me! What a pity it is that they are not
in rhime!"

"I am very glad you like it answered she; To be sure there was a great
deal of Taste in it. And are you in love with her, Cousin? said I. I am
very sorry for it, for unexceptionable as you are in every respect, with
a pretty Estate capable of Great improvements, and an excellent House
tho' somewhat out of repair, yet who can hope to aspire with success
to the adorable Henrietta who has had an offer from a Colonel and
been toasted by a Baronet"--"THAT I have--" cried I. Lady Scudamore
continued. "Ah dear Cousin replied he, I am so well convinced of the
little Chance I can have of winning her who is adored by thousands, that
I need no assurances of yours to make me more thoroughly so. Yet surely
neither you or the fair Henrietta herself will deny me the exquisite
Gratification of dieing for her, of falling a victim to her Charms. And
when I am dead"--continued her--

"Oh Lady Scudamore, said I wiping my eyes, that such a sweet Creature
should talk of dieing!"

"It is an affecting Circumstance indeed, replied Lady Scudamore." "When
I am dead said he, let me be carried and lain at her feet, and perhaps
she may not disdain to drop a pitying tear on my poor remains."

"Dear Lady Scudamore interrupted I, say no more on this affecting
subject. I cannot bear it."

"Oh! how I admire the sweet sensibility of your Soul, and as I would not
for Worlds wound it too deeply, I will be silent."

"Pray go on." said I. She did so.

"And then added he, Ah! Cousin imagine what my 