 Mirth would be improper and I know my own Heart too
well not to be sensible that it would be unnatural. You must not expect
news for we see no one with whom we are in the least acquainted, or in
whose proceedings we have any Interest. You must not expect scandal
for by the same rule we are equally debarred either from hearing or
inventing it.--You must expect from me nothing but the melancholy
effusions of a broken Heart which is ever reverting to the Happiness
it once enjoyed and which ill supports its present wretchedness. The
Possibility of being able to write, to speak, to you of my lost Henry
will be a luxury to me, and your goodness will not I know refuse to read
what it will so much releive my Heart to write. I once thought that to
have what is in general called a Freind (I mean one of my own sex
to whom I might speak with less reserve than to any other person)
independant of my sister would never be an object of my wishes, but how
much was I mistaken! Charlotte is too much engrossed by two confidential
correspondents of that sort, to supply the place of one to me, and I
hope you will not think me girlishly romantic, when I say that to
have some kind and compassionate Freind who might listen to my sorrows
without endeavouring to console me was what I had for some time wished
for, when our acquaintance with you, the intimacy which followed it and
the particular affectionate attention you paid me almost from the first,
caused me to entertain the flattering Idea of those attentions being
improved on a closer acquaintance into a Freindship which, if you were
what my wishes formed you would be the greatest Happiness I could
be capable of enjoying. To find that such Hopes are realised is a
satisfaction indeed, a satisfaction which is now almost the only one I
can ever experience.--I feel myself so languid that I am sure were you
with me you would oblige me to leave off writing, and I cannot give you
a greater proof of my affection for you than by acting, as I know you
would wish me to do, whether Absent or Present. I am my dear Emmas
sincere freind E. L.




LETTER the NINTH Mrs MARLOWE to Miss LUTTERELL Grosvenor Street, April
10th

Need I say my dear Eloisa how wellcome your letter was to me I cannot
give a greater proof of the pleasure I received from it, or of the
Desire I feel that our Correspondence may be regular and frequent than
by setting you so good an example as I now do in answering it before the
end of the week--. But do not imagine that I claim any merit in being
so punctual; on the contrary I assure you, that it is a far greater
Gratification to me to write to you, than to spend the Evening either at
a Concert or a Ball. Mr Marlowe is so desirous of my appearing at some
of the Public places every evening that I do not like to refuse him, but
at the same time so much wish to remain at Home, that independant of
the Pleasure I experience in devoting any portion of my Time to my
Dear Eloisa, yet the Liberty I claim from having a letter to write of
spending an Evening at home with my little Boy, you know me well enough
to be sensible, will of itself be a sufficient Inducement (if one is
necessary) to my maintaining with Pleasure a Correspondence with you.
As to the subject of your letters to me, whether grave or merry, if they
concern you they must be equally interesting to me; not but that I think
the melancholy Indulgence of your own sorrows by repeating them and
dwelling on them to me, will only encourage and increase them, and
that it will be more prudent in you to avoid so sad a subject; but yet
knowing as I do what a soothing and melancholy Pleasure it must afford
you, I cannot prevail on myself to deny you so great an Indulgence, and
will only insist on your not expecting me to encourage you in it, by my
own letters; on the contrary I intend to fill them with such lively Wit
and enlivening Humour as shall even provoke a smile in the sweet but
sorrowfull countenance of my Eloisa.

In the first place you are to learn that I have met your sisters three
freinds Lady Lesley and her Daughters, twice in Public since I have been
here. I know you will be impatient to hear my opinion of the Beauty of
three Ladies of whom you have heard so much. Now, as you are too ill and
too unhappy to be vain, I think I may venture to inform you that I
like none of their faces so well as I do your own. Yet they are all
handsome--Lady Lesley indeed I have seen before; her Daughters I beleive
would in general be said to have a finer face than her Ladyship, and yet
what with the charms of a Blooming complexion, a little Affectation and
a great deal of small-talk, (in each of which she is superior to the
young Ladies) she will I dare say gain herself as many admirers as the
more regular features of Matilda, and Margaret. I am sure you will agree
with me in saying that they can none of them be of a proper size for
real Beauty, when you know that two of them are taller and the other
shorter than ourselves. In spite of this Defect (or rather by reason
of it) there is something very noble and majestic in the figures of the
Miss Lesleys, 