your opinion; (said my Father) it certainly does appear
to proceed from some uncommon violence exerted against our unoffending
door." "Yes (exclaimed I) I cannot help thinking it must be somebody who
knocks for admittance."

"That is another point (replied he;) We must not pretend to determine
on what motive the person may knock--tho' that someone DOES rap at the
door, I am partly convinced."

Here, a 2d tremendous rap interrupted my Father in his speech, and
somewhat alarmed my Mother and me.

"Had we better not go and see who it is? (said she) the servants are
out." "I think we had." (replied I.) "Certainly, (added my Father)
by all means." "Shall we go now?" (said my Mother,) "The sooner the
better." (answered he.) "Oh! let no time be lost" (cried I.)

A third more violent Rap than ever again assaulted our ears. "I am
certain there is somebody knocking at the Door." (said my Mother.)
"I think there must," (replied my Father) "I fancy the servants are
returned; (said I) I think I hear Mary going to the Door." "I'm glad of
it (cried my Father) for I long to know who it is."

I was right in my conjecture; for Mary instantly entering the Room,
informed us that a young Gentleman and his Servant were at the door, who
had lossed their way, were very cold and begged leave to warm themselves
by our fire.

"Won't you admit them?" (said I.) "You have no objection, my Dear?"
(said my Father.) "None in the World." (replied my Mother.)

Mary, without waiting for any further commands immediately left the room
and quickly returned introducing the most beauteous and amiable Youth, I
had ever beheld. The servant she kept to herself.

My natural sensibility had already been greatly affected by the
sufferings of the unfortunate stranger and no sooner did I first behold
him, than I felt that on him the happiness or Misery of my future Life
must depend. Adeiu Laura.




LETTER 6th LAURA to MARIANNE

The noble Youth informed us that his name was Lindsay--for particular
reasons however I shall conceal it under that of Talbot. He told us that
he was the son of an English Baronet, that his Mother had been for many
years no more and that he had a Sister of the middle size. "My Father
(he continued) is a mean and mercenary wretch--it is only to such
particular freinds as this Dear Party that I would thus betray his
failings. Your Virtues my amiable Polydore (addressing himself to my
father) yours Dear Claudia and yours my Charming Laura call on me to
repose in you, my confidence." We bowed. "My Father seduced by the false
glare of Fortune and the Deluding Pomp of Title, insisted on my giving
my hand to Lady Dorothea. No never exclaimed I. Lady Dorothea is lovely
and Engaging; I prefer no woman to her; but know Sir, that I scorn to
marry her in compliance with your Wishes. No! Never shall it be said
that I obliged my Father."

We all admired the noble Manliness of his reply. He continued.

"Sir Edward was surprised; he had perhaps little expected to meet with
so spirited an opposition to his will. "Where, Edward in the name of
wonder (said he) did you pick up this unmeaning gibberish? You have
been studying Novels I suspect." I scorned to answer: it would have
been beneath my dignity. I mounted my Horse and followed by my faithful
William set forth for my Aunts."

"My Father's house is situated in Bedfordshire, my Aunt's in Middlesex,
and tho' I flatter myself with being a tolerable proficient in
Geography, I know not how it happened, but I found myself entering this
beautifull Vale which I find is in South Wales, when I had expected to
have reached my Aunts."

"After having wandered some time on the Banks of the Uske without
knowing which way to go, I began to lament my cruel Destiny in the
bitterest and most pathetic Manner. It was now perfectly dark, not a
single star was there to direct my steps, and I know not what might have
befallen me had I not at length discerned thro' the solemn Gloom that
surrounded me a distant light, which as I approached it, I discovered
to be the chearfull Blaze of your fire. Impelled by the combination
of Misfortunes under which I laboured, namely Fear, Cold and Hunger I
hesitated not to ask admittance which at length I have gained; and
now my Adorable Laura (continued he taking my Hand) when may I hope
to receive that reward of all the painfull sufferings I have undergone
during the course of my attachment to you, to which I have ever aspired.
Oh! when will you reward me with Yourself?"

"This instant, Dear and Amiable Edward." (replied I.). We were
immediately united by my Father, who tho' he had never taken orders had
been bred to the Church. Adeiu Laura




LETTER 7th LAURA to MARIANNE

We remained but a few days after our Marriage, in the Vale of Uske.
After taking an affecting Farewell of my Father, my Mother and my
Isabel, I accompanied Edward to his Aunt's in Middlesex. Philippa
received us both with every expression of affectionate Love. My arrival
was indeed a most agreable surprise to her as she had not only been
totally ignorant of my Marriage with her Nephew, but had never even had
the slightest idea of t