.

  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon, Overton, Hants.




V.


                                        ROWLING, Sunday (September 18).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--This morning has been spent in doubt and
deliberation, in forming plans and removing difficulties, for it ushered
in the day with an event which I had not intended should take place so
soon by a week. Frank has received his appointment on board the "Captain
John Gore," commanded by the "Triton," and will therefore be obliged to
be in town on Wednesday; and though I have every disposition in the
world to accompany him on that day, I cannot go on the uncertainty of
the Pearsons being at home, as I should not have a place to go to in
case they were from home.

I wrote to Miss P. on Friday, and hoped to receive an answer from her
this morning, which would have rendered everything smooth and easy, and
would have enabled us to leave this place to-morrow, as Frank, on first
receiving his appointment, intended to do. He remains till Wednesday
merely to accommodate me. I have written to her again to-day, and
desired her to answer it by return of post. On Tuesday, therefore, I
shall positively know whether they can receive me on Wednesday. If they
cannot, Edward has been so good as to promise to take me to Greenwich on
the Monday following, which was the day before fixed on, if that suits
them better. If I have no answer at all on Tuesday, I must suppose Mary
is not at home, and must wait till I do hear, as after having invited
her to go to Steventon with me, it will not quite do to go home and say
no more about it.

My father will be so good as to fetch home his prodigal daughter from
town, I hope, unless he wishes me to walk the hospitals, enter at the
Temple, or mount guard at St. James'. It will hardly be in Frank's power
to take me home,--nay, it certainly will not. I shall write again as
soon as I get to Greenwich.

What dreadful hot weather we have! It keeps one in a continual state of
inelegance.

If Miss Pearson should return with me, pray be careful not to expect too
much beauty. I will not pretend to say that on a first view she quite
answered the opinion I had formed of her. My mother, I am sure, will be
disappointed if she does not take great care. From what I remember of
her picture, it is no great resemblance.

I am very glad that the idea of returning with Frank occurred to me; for
as to Henry's coming into Kent again, the time of its taking place is so
very uncertain that I should be waiting for dead men's shoes. I had once
determined to go with Frank to-morrow and take my chance, etc., but they
dissuaded me from so rash a step as I really think on consideration it
would have been; for if the Pearsons were not at home, I should
inevitably fall a sacrifice to the arts of some fat woman who would make
me drunk with small beer.

Mary is brought to bed of a boy,--both doing very well. I shall leave
you to guess what Mary I mean. Adieu, with best love to all your
agreeable inmates. Don't let the Lloyds go on any account before I
return, unless Miss P. is of the party. How ill I have written! I begin
to hate myself.

                                                 Yours ever,
                                                          J. AUSTEN.

The "Triton" is a new 32 frigate just launched at Deptford. Frank is
much pleased with the prospect of having Captain Gore under his command.

  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon, Overton, Hants.




VI.


                                    "BULL AND GEORGE," DARTFORD,
                                        Wednesday (October 24, 1798).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--You have already heard from Daniel, I conclude, in
what excellent time we reached and quitted Sittingbourne, and how very
well my mother bore her journey thither. I am now able to send you a
continuation of the same good account of her. She was very little
fatigued on her arrival at this place, has been refreshed by a
comfortable dinner, and now seems quite stout. It wanted five minutes of
twelve when we left Sittingbourne, from whence we had a famous pair of
horses, which took us to Rochester in an hour and a quarter; the postboy
seemed determined to show my mother that Kentish drivers were not always
tedious, and really drove as fast as Cax.

Our next stage was not quite so expeditiously performed; the road was
heavy, and our horses very indifferent. However, we were in such good
time and my mother bore her journey so well, that expedition was of
little importance to us; and as it was, we were very little more than
two hours and a half coming hither, and it was scarcely past four when
we stopped at the inn. My mother took some of her bitters at Ospringe,
and some more at Rochester, and she ate some bread several times.

We have got apartments up two pair of stairs, as we could not be
otherwise accommodated with a sitting-room and bed-chambers on the same
floor which we wished to be. We have one double-bedded and one
single-bedded room; in the former my mother and I are to sleep. I shall
leave you to guess who is to occupy the other. We sate down to dinner a
little after five, and had some bee