the room could conveniently
hold, which is enough to constitute a good ball at any time.

I do not think I was very much in request. People were rather apt not to
ask me till they could not help it; one's consequence, you know, varies
so much at times without any particular reason. There was one gentleman,
an officer of the Cheshire, a very good-looking young man, who, I was
told, wanted very much to be introduced to me; but as he did not want
it quite enough to take much trouble in effecting it, we never could
bring it about.

I danced with Mr. John Wood again, twice with a Mr. South, a lad from
Winchester, who, I suppose, is as far from being related to the bishop
of that diocese as it is possible to be, with G. Lefroy, and J. Harwood,
who, I think, takes to me rather more than he used to do. One of my
gayest actions was sitting down two dances in preference to having Lord
Bolton's eldest son for my partner, who danced too ill to be endured.
The Miss Charterises were there, and played the parts of the Miss Edens
with great spirit. Charles never came. Naughty Charles! I suppose he
could not get superseded in time.

Miss Debary has replaced your two sheets of drawing-paper with two of
superior size and quality; so I do not grudge her having taken them at
all now. Mr. Ludlow and Miss Pugh of Andover are lately married, and so
is Mrs. Skeete of Basingstoke, and Mr. French, chemist, of Reading.

I do not wonder at your wanting to read "First Impressions" again, so
seldom as you have gone through it, and that so long ago. I am much
obliged to you for meaning to leave my old petticoat behind you. I have
long secretly wished it might be done, but had not courage to make the
request.

Pray mention the name of Maria Montresor's lover when you write next. My
mother wants to know it, and I have not courage to look back into your
letters to find it out.

I shall not be able to send this till to-morrow, and you will be
disappointed on Friday; I am very sorry for it, but I cannot help it.

The partnership between Jeffereys, Toomer, and Legge is dissolved; the
two latter are melted away into nothing, and it is to be hoped that
Jeffereys will soon break, for the sake of a few heroines whose money he
may have. I wish you joy of your birthday twenty times over.

I shall be able to send this to the post to-day, which exalts me to the
utmost pinnacle of human felicity, and makes me bask in the sunshine of
prosperity or gives me any other sensation of pleasure in studied
language which you may prefer. Do not be angry with me for not filling
my sheet, and believe me yours affectionately,

                                                 J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.




XIII.


                                    STEVENTON, Monday (January 21).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I will endeavor to make this letter more worthy your
acceptance than my last, which was so shabby a one that I think Mr.
Marshall could never charge you with the postage. My eyes have been
very indifferent since it was written, but are now getting better once
more; keeping them so many hours open on Thursday night, as well as the
dust of the ballroom, injured them a good deal. I use them as little as
I can, but you know, and Elizabeth knows, and everybody who ever had
weak eyes knows, how delightful it is to hurt them by employment,
against the advice and entreaty of all one's friends.

Charles leaves us to-night. The "Tamar" is in the Downs, and Mr. Daysh
advises him to join her there directly, as there is no chance of her
going to the westward. Charles does not approve of this at all, and will
not be much grieved if he should be too late for her before she sails,
as he may then hope to get into a better station. He attempted to go to
town last night, and got as far on his road thither as Dean Gate; but
both the coaches were full, and we had the pleasure of seeing him back
again. He will call on Daysh to-morrow to know whether the "Tamar" has
sailed or not, and if she is still at the Downs he will proceed in one
of the night coaches to Deal. I want to go with him, that I may explain
the country to him properly between Canterbury and Rowling, but the
unpleasantness of returning by myself deters me. I should like to go as
far as Ospringe with him very much indeed, that I might surprise you at
Godmersham.

Martha writes me word that Charles was very much admired at Kintbury,
and Mrs. Lefroy never saw any one so much improved in her life, and
thinks him handsomer than Henry. He appears to far more advantage here
than he did at Godmersham, not surrounded by strangers and neither
oppressed by a pain in his face or powder in his hair.

James christened Elizabeth Caroline on Saturday morning, and then came
home. Mary, Anna, and Edward have left us of course; before the second
went I took down her answer to her cousin Fanny.

Yesterday came a letter to my mother from Edward Cooper to announce, not
the birth of a child, but of a living; for Mrs. Leigh has begged his
acceptance of the Rectory of Hamstall-Ridware in Staffordshire, vacant
by Mr. Johnson's death. We collect