am exceedingly pleased
that you can say what you do, after having gone through the whole work,
and Fanny's praise is very gratifying. My hopes were tolerably strong of
her, but nothing like a certainty. Her liking Darcy and Elizabeth is
enough. She might hate all the others, if she would. I have her opinion
under her own hand this morning; but your transcript of it, which I read
first, was not, and is not, the less acceptable. To me it is of course
all praise, but the more exact truth which she sends you is good
enough. . . . Our party on Wednesday was not unagreeable, though we
wanted a master of the house less anxious and fidgety, and more
conversable. Upon Mrs. ----'s mentioning that she had sent the rejected
addresses to Mrs. H., I began talking to her a little about them, and
expressed my hope of their having amused her. Her answer was, "Oh dear,
yes, very much, very droll indeed, the opening of the house, and the
striking up of the fiddles!" What she meant, poor woman, who shall say?
I sought no farther. As soon as a whist-party was formed, and a round
table threatened, I made my mother an excuse and came away, leaving just
as many for their round table as there were at Mrs. Grant's.[16] I wish
they might be as agreeable a set. My mother is very well, and finds
great amusement in glove-knitting, and at present wants no other work.
We quite run over with books. She has got Sir John Carr's "Travels in
Spain," and I am reading a Society octavo, an "Essay on the Military
Police and Institutions of the British Empire," by Capt. Pasley of the
Engineers,--a book which I protested against at first, but which upon
trial I find delightfully written and highly entertaining. I am as much
in love with the author as I ever was with Clarkson or Buchanan, or even
the two Mr. Smiths of the city. The first soldier I ever sighed for; but
he does write with extraordinary force and spirit. Yesterday, moreover,
brought us "Mrs. Grant's Letters," with Mr. White's compliments; but I
have disposed of them, compliments and all, to Miss P., and amongst so
many readers or retainers of books as we have in Chawton, I dare say
there will be no difficulty in getting rid of them for another
fortnight, if necessary. I have disposed of Mrs. Grant for the second
fortnight to Mrs. ----. It can make no difference to her which of the
twenty-six fortnights in the year the three vols. lie on her table. I
have been applied to for information as to the oath taken in former
times of Bell, Book, and Candle, but have none to give. Perhaps you may
be able to learn something of its origin where you now are. Ladies who
read those enormous great stupid thick quarto volumes which one always
sees in the breakfast-parlor there must be acquainted with everything
in the world. I detest a quarto. Captain Pasley's book is too good for
their society. They will not understand a man who condenses his thoughts
into an octavo. I have learned from Sir J. Carr that there is no
Government House at Gibraltar. I must alter it to the Commissioner's.

FOOTNOTE:

[16] At this time, February, 1813, "Mansfield Park" was nearly finished.




XLIII.


                                       SLOANE STREET, Thursday, May 20.

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Before I say anything else, I claim a paper full of
halfpence on the drawing-room mantelpiece; I put them there myself, and
forgot to bring them with me. I cannot say that I have yet been in any
distress for money, but I choose to have my due, as well as the Devil.
How lucky we were in our weather yesterday! This wet morning makes one
more sensible of it. We had no rain of any consequence. The head of the
curricle was put half up three or four times, but our share of the
showers was very trifling, though they seemed to be heavy all round us,
when we were on the Hog's-back, and I fancied it might then be raining
so hard at Chawton as to make you feel for us much more than we
deserved. Three hours and a quarter took us to Guildford, where we
stayed barely two hours, and had only just time enough for all we had
to do there; that is, eating a long and comfortable breakfast, watching
the carriages, paying Mr. Harrington, and taking a little stroll
afterwards. From some views which that stroll gave us, I think most
highly of the situation of Guildford. We wanted all our brothers and
sisters to be standing with us in the bowling-green, and looking towards
Horsham. I was very lucky in my gloves,--got them at the first shop I
went to, though I went into it rather because it was near than because
it looked at all like a glove-shop, and gave only four shillings for
them; after which everybody at Chawton will be hoping and predicting
that they cannot be good for anything, and their worth certainly remains
to be proved; but I think they look very well. We left Guildford at
twenty minutes before twelve (I hope somebody cares for these minutiæ),
and were at Esher in about two hours more. I was very much pleased with
the country in general. Between Guildford and Ripley I thought it
particularly pretty, also about Painshill; and from a Mr. Spicer's
grounds at Esher, whi