e than that I once was married."

"Then why are you called Miss Jane?"

"I married, my Sophia without the consent or knowledge of my father the
late Admiral Annesley. It was therefore necessary to keep the secret
from him and from every one, till some fortunate opportunity might offer
of revealing it--. Such an opportunity alas! was but too soon given in
the death of my dear Capt. Dashwood--Pardon these tears, continued Miss
Jane wiping her Eyes, I owe them to my Husband's memory. He fell my
Sophia, while fighting for his Country in America after a most happy
Union of seven years--. My Children, two sweet Boys and a Girl, who
had constantly resided with my Father and me, passing with him and with
every one as the Children of a Brother (tho' I had ever been an only
Child) had as yet been the comforts of my Life. But no sooner had
I lossed my Henry, than these sweet Creatures fell sick and died--.
Conceive dear Sophia what my feelings must have been when as an Aunt I
attended my Children to their early Grave--. My Father did not survive
them many weeks--He died, poor Good old man, happily ignorant to his
last hour of my Marriage.'

"But did not you own it, and assume his name at your husband's death?"

"No; I could not bring myself to do it; more especially when in my
Children I lost all inducement for doing it. Lady Bridget, and yourself
are the only persons who are in the knowledge of my having ever been
either Wife or Mother. As I could not Prevail on myself to take the
name of Dashwood (a name which after my Henry's death I could never hear
without emotion) and as I was conscious of having no right to that of
Annesley, I dropt all thoughts of either, and have made it a point of
bearing only my Christian one since my Father's death." She paused--"Oh!
my dear Miss Jane (said I) how infinitely am I obliged to you for so
entertaining a story! You cannot think how it has diverted me! But have
you quite done?"

"I have only to add my dear Sophia, that my Henry's elder Brother dieing
about the same time, Lady Bridget became a Widow like myself, and as we
had always loved each other in idea from the high Character in which we
had ever been spoken of, though we had never met, we determined to live
together. We wrote to one another on the same subject by the same post,
so exactly did our feeling and our actions coincide! We both eagerly
embraced the proposals we gave and received of becoming one family, and
have from that time lived together in the greatest affection."

"And is this all? said I, I hope you have not done."

"Indeed I have; and did you ever hear a story more pathetic?"

"I never did--and it is for that reason it pleases me so much, for when
one is unhappy nothing is so delightful to one's sensations as to hear
of equal misery."

"Ah! but my Sophia why are YOU unhappy?"

"Have you not heard Madam of Willoughby's Marriage?"

"But my love why lament HIS perfidy, when you bore so well that of many
young Men before?"

"Ah! Madam, I was used to it then, but when Willoughby broke his
Engagements I had not been dissapointed for half a year."

"Poor Girl!" said Miss Jane.




LETTER the THIRD From a YOUNG LADY in distressed Circumstances to her
freind

A few days ago I was at a private Ball given by Mr Ashburnham. As my
Mother never goes out she entrusted me to the care of Lady Greville who
did me the honour of calling for me in her way and of allowing me to sit
forwards, which is a favour about which I am very indifferent especially
as I know it is considered as confering a great obligation on me "So
Miss Maria (said her Ladyship as she saw me advancing to the door of the
Carriage) you seem very smart to night--MY poor Girls will appear quite
to disadvantage by YOU--I only hope your Mother may not have distressed
herself to set YOU off. Have you got a new Gown on?"

"Yes Ma'am." replied I with as much indifference as I could assume.

"Aye, and a fine one too I think--(feeling it, as by her permission I
seated myself by her) I dare say it is all very smart--But I must
own, for you know I always speak my mind, that I think it was quite a
needless piece of expence--Why could not you have worn your old striped
one? It is not my way to find fault with People because they are poor,
for I always think that they are more to be despised and pitied than
blamed for it, especially if they cannot help it, but at the same time I
must say that in my opinion your old striped Gown would have been quite
fine enough for its Wearer--for to tell you the truth (I always speak my
mind) I am very much afraid that one half of the people in the room will
not know whether you have a Gown on or not--But I suppose you intend to
make your fortune to night--. Well, the sooner the better; and I wish
you success."

"Indeed Ma'am I have no such intention--"

"Who ever heard a young Lady own that she was a Fortune-hunter?" Miss
Greville laughed but I am sure Ellen felt for me.

"Was your Mother gone to bed before you left her?" said her Ladyship.

"Dear Ma'am, said Ellen it is but nine o'clock."

"True Ellen, but Candles cost money, and Mrs Williams is too wis