d always resolved to buy there,--a white silk
handkerchief,--and was therefore obliged to give six shillings for one
at Crook and Besford's; which reminds me to say that the worsteds ought
also to be at Chawton to-morrow, and that I shall be very happy to hear
they are approved. I had not much time for deliberation.

We are now all four of us young ladies sitting round the circular table
in the inner room writing our letters, while the two brothers are
having a comfortable coze in the room adjoining. It is to be a quiet
evening, much to the satisfaction of four of the six. My eyes are quite
tired of dust and lamps.

The letter you forwarded from Edward, junr., has been duly received. He
has been shooting most prosperously at home, and dining at Chilham
Castle and with Mr. Scudamore.

My cap is come home, and I like it very much. Fanny has one also; hers
is white sarsenet and lace, of a different shape from mine, more fit for
morning carriage wear, which is what it is intended for, and is in shape
exceedingly like our own satin and lace of last winter; shaped round the
face exactly like it, with pipes and more fulness, and a round crown
inserted behind. My cap has a peak in front. Large full bows of very
narrow ribbon (old twopenny) are the thing. One over the right temple,
perhaps, and another at the left ear.

Henry is not quite well. His stomach is rather deranged. You must keep
him in rhubarb, and give him plenty of port and water. He caught his
cold farther back than I told you,--before he got to Matlock, somewhere
in his journey from the North; but the ill effects of that I hope are
nearly gone.

We returned from Grafton House only just in time for breakfast, and had
scarcely finished breakfast when the carriage came to the door. From
eleven to half-past three we were hard at it; we did contrive to get to
Hans Place for ten minutes. Mrs. T. was as affectionate and pleasing as
ever.

After our return Mr. Tilson walked up from the Compting House and called
upon us, and these have been all our visitings.

I have rejoiced more than once that I bought my writing-paper in the
country; we have not had a quarter of an hour to spare.

I enclose the eighteen-pence due to my mother. The rose color was 6_s._
and the other 4_s._ per yard. There was but two yards and a quarter of
the dark slate in the shop, but the man promised to match it and send it
off correctly.

Fanny bought her Irish at Newton's in Leicester Square, and I took the
opportunity of thinking about your Irish, and seeing one piece of the
yard wide at 4_s._, and it seemed to me very good; good enough for your
purpose. It might at least be worth your while to go there, if you have
no other engagements. Fanny is very much pleased with the stockings she
has bought of Remmington, silk at 12_s._, cotton at 4_s._ 3_d._ She
thinks them great bargains, but I have not seen them yet, as my hair was
dressing when the man and the stockings came.

The poor girls and their teeth! I have not mentioned them yet, but we
were a whole hour at Spence's, and Lizzy's were filed and lamented over
again, and poor Marianne had two taken out after all, the two just
beyond the eye teeth, to make room for those in front. When her doom was
fixed, Fanny, Lizzy, and I walked into the next room, where we heard
each of the two sharp and hasty screams.

The little girls' teeth I can suppose in a critical state, but I think
he must be a lover of teeth and money and mischief, to parade about
Fanny's. I would not have had him look at mine for a shilling a tooth
and double it. It was a disagreeable hour.

We then went to Wedgwood's, where my brother and Fanny chose a
dinner-set. I believe the pattern is a small lozenge in purple, between
lines of narrow gold, and it is to have the crest.

We must have been three-quarters of an hour at Grafton House, Edward
sitting by all the time with wonderful patience. There Fanny bought the
net for Anna's gown, and a beautiful square veil for herself. The edging
there is very cheap. I was tempted by some, and I bought some very nice
plaiting lace at 3_s._ 4_d._

Fanny desires me to tell Martha, with her kind love, that Birchall
assured her there was no second set of Hook's Lessons for Beginners, and
that, by my advice, she has therefore chosen her a set by another
composer. I thought she would rather have something than not. It costs
six shillings.

With love to you all, including Triggs, I remain,

                            Yours very affectionately,       J. AUSTEN.

  Henrietta St., autumn of 1813.
    Miss AUSTEN, Chawton.
      By favor of




XLVII.


                                  GODMERSHAM PARK, Thursday (Sept. 23).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--Thank you five hundred and forty times for the
exquisite piece of workmanship which was brought into the room this
morning, while we were at breakfast, with some very inferior works of
art in the same way, and which I read with high glee, much delighted
with everything it told, whether good or bad. It is so rich in striking
intelligence that I hardly know what to reply to first. I believe finery
must have it.

I am ext