l very well the evening before. We had
handsome presents from the Gt. House yesterday,--a ham and the four
leeches. Sackree has left some shirts of her master's at the school,
which, finished or unfinished, she begs to have sent by Henry and Wm.
Mr. Hinton is expected home soon, which is a good thing for the shirts.

We have called upon Miss Dusantoy and Miss Papillon, and been very
pretty. Miss D. has a great idea of being Fanny Price,--she and her
youngest sister together, who is named Fanny.

Miss Benn has drank tea with the Prowtings, and, I believe, comes to us
this evening. She has still a swelling about the forefinger and a little
discharge, and does not seem to be on the point of a perfect cure, but
her spirits are good, and she will be most happy, I believe, to accept
any invitation. The Clements are gone to Petersfield to look.

Only think of the Marquis of Granby being dead. I hope, if it please
Heaven there should be another son, they will have better sponsors and
less parade.

I certainly do not wish that Henry should think again of getting me to
town. I would rather return straight from Bookham; but if he really does
propose it, I cannot say No to what will be so kindly intended. It could
be but for a few days, however, as my mother would be quite disappointed
by my exceeding the fortnight which I now talk of as the outside--at
least, we could not both remain longer away comfortably.

The middle of July is Martha's time, as far as she has any time. She has
left it to Mrs. Craven to fix the day. I wish she could get her money
paid, for I fear her going at all depends upon that.

Instead of Bath the Deans Dundases have taken a house at
Clifton--Richmond Terrace--and she is as glad of the change as even you
and I should be, or almost. She will now be able to go on from Berks and
visit them without any fears from heat.

This post has brought me a letter from Miss Sharpe. Poor thing! she has
been suffering indeed, but is now in a comparative state of comfort. She
is at Sir W. P.'s, in Yorkshire, with the children, and there is no
appearance of her quitting them. Of course we lose the pleasure of
seeing her here. She writes highly of Sir Wm. I do so want him to marry
her. There is a Dow. Lady P. presiding there to make it all right. The
Man is the same; but she does not mention what he is by profession or
trade. She does not think Lady P. was privy to his scheme on her, but,
on being in his power, yielded. Oh, Sir Wm.! Sir Wm.! how I will love
you if you will love Miss Sharpe!

Mrs. Driver, etc., are off by Collier, but so near being too late that
she had not time to call and leave the keys herself. I have them,
however. I suppose one is the key of the linen-press, but I do not know
what to guess the other.

The coach was stopped at the blacksmith's, and they came running down
with Triggs and Browning, and trunks, and birdcages. Quite amusing.

My mother desires her love, and hopes to hear from you.

                                  Yours very affectionately,
                                                       J. AUSTEN.

Frank and Mary are to have Mary Goodchild to help as _Under_ till they
can get a cook. She is delighted to go.

Best love at Streatham.

  Miss AUSTEN, Henrietta St.
    By favor of Mr. GRAY.




LVII.


                        23 HANS PLACE, Tuesday morning (August, 1814).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I had a very good journey, not crowded, two of the
three taken up at Bentley being children, the others of a reasonable
size; and they were all very quiet and civil. We were late in London,
from being a great load, and from changing coaches at Farnham; it was
nearly four, I believe, when we reached Sloane Street. Henry himself met
me, and as soon as my trunk and basket could be routed out from all the
other trunks and baskets in the world, we were on our way to Hans Place
in the luxury of a nice, large, cool, dirty hackney coach.

There were four in the kitchen part of Yalden, and I was told fifteen at
top, among them Percy Benn. We met in the same room at Egham, but poor
Percy was not in his usual spirits. He would be more chatty, I dare say,
in his way from Woolwich. We took up a young Gibson at Holybourn, and,
in short, everybody either did come up by Yalden yesterday, or wanted to
come up. It put me in mind of my own coach between Edinburgh and
Stirling.

Henry is very well, and has given me an account of the Canterbury races,
which seem to have been as pleasant as one could wish. Everything went
well. Fanny had good partners, Mr. ---- was her second on Thursday, but
he did not dance with her any more.

This will content you for the present. I must just add, however, that
there were no Lady Charlottes, they were gone off to Kirby, and that
Mary Oxenden, instead of dying, is going to marry Wm. Hammond.

No James and Edward yet. Our evening yesterday was perfectly quiet; we
only talked a little to Mr. Tilson across the intermediate gardens; she
was gone out airing with Miss Burdett. It is a delightful place,--more
than answers my expectation. Having got rid of my unreasonable ideas, I
find more space an