 the
Itchen. It is a handsome building, stands high, and in a very beautiful
situation.

We found only Mrs. Lance at home, and whether she boasts any offspring
besides a grand pianoforte did not appear. She was civil and chatty
enough, and offered to introduce us to some acquaintance in Southampton,
which we gratefully declined.

I suppose they must be acting by the orders of Mr. Lance of Netherton in
this civility, as there seems no other reason for their coming near us.
They will not come often, I dare say. They live in a handsome style and
are rich, and she seemed to like to be rich, and we gave her to
understand that we were far from being so; she will soon feel therefore
that we are not worth her acquaintance.

You must have heard from Martha by this time. We have had no accounts of
Kintbury since her letter to me.

Mrs. F. A. has had one fainting fit lately; it came on as usual after
eating a hearty dinner, but did not last long.

I can recollect nothing more to say. When my letter is gone, I suppose I
shall.

                                    Yours affectionately,      J. A.

I have just asked Caroline if I should send her love to her godmamma, to
which she answered "Yes."

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXIII.


                                              SOUTHAMPTON, February 8.

. . . OUR garden is putting in order by a man who bears a remarkably
good character, has a very fine complexion, and asks something less than
the first. The shrubs which border the gravel walk, he says, are only
sweetbrier and roses, and the latter of an indifferent sort; we mean to
get a few of a better kind, therefore, and at my own particular desire
he procures us some syringas. I could not do without a syringa, for the
sake of Cowper's line. We talk also of a laburnum. The border under the
terrace wall is clearing away to receive currants and gooseberry bushes,
and a spot is found very proper for raspberries.

The alterations and improvements within doors, too, advance very
properly, and the offices will be made very convenient indeed. Our
dressing-table is constructing on the spot, out of a large kitchen table
belonging to the house, for doing which we have the permission of Mr.
Husket, Lord Lansdown's painter,--domestic painter, I should call him,
for he lives in the castle. Domestic chaplains have given way to this
more necessary office, and I suppose whenever the walls want no touching
up he is employed about my lady's face.

The morning was so wet that I was afraid we should not be able to see
our little visitor; but Frank, who alone could go to church, called for
her after service, and she is now talking away at my side and examining
the treasures of my writing-desk drawers,--very happy, I believe. Not at
all shy, of course. Her name is Catherine, and her sister's Caroline.
She is something like her brother, and as short for her age, but not so
well-looking.

What is become of all the shyness in the world? Moral as well as natural
diseases disappear in the progress of time, and new ones take their
place. Shyness and the sweating sickness have given way to confidence
and paralytic complaints. . . .

_Evening._--Our little visitor has just left us, and left us highly
pleased with her; she is a nice, natural, open-hearted, affectionate
girl, with all the ready civility which one sees in the best children in
the present day; so unlike anything that I was myself at her age, that I
am often all astonishment and shame. Half her time was spent at
spillikins, which I consider as a very valuable part of our household
furniture, and as not the least important benefaction from the family of
Knight to that of Austen.

But I must tell you a story. Mary has for some time had notice from Mrs.
Dickson of the intended arrival of a certain Miss Fowler in this place.
Miss F. is an intimate friend of Mrs. D., and a good deal known as such
to Mary. On Thursday last she called here while we were out. Mary
found, on our return, her card with only her name on it, and she had
left word that she would call again. The particularity of this made us
talk, and, among other conjectures, Frank said in joke, "I dare say she
is staying with the Pearsons." The connection of the names struck Mary,
and she immediately recollected Miss Fowler's having been very intimate
with persons so called, and, upon putting everything together, we have
scarcely a doubt of her being actually staying with the only family in
the place whom we cannot visit.

What a _contretemps_! in the language of France. What an unluckiness! in
that of Madame Duval. The black gentleman has certainly employed one of
his menial imps to bring about this complete, though trifling mischief.
Miss F. has never called again, but we are in daily expectation of it.
Miss P. has, of course, given her a proper understanding of the
business. It is evident that Miss F. did not expect or wish to have the
visit returned, and Frank is quite as much on his guard for his wife as
we could desire for her sake or our own.

We shall rejoice in being so near Winchester when Edward belongs to it,