ous Protestants have even abused her for that
steadfastness in the Catholic Religion which reflected on her so
much credit? But this is a striking proof of THEIR narrow souls and
prejudiced Judgements who accuse her. She was executed in the Great Hall
at Fortheringay Castle (sacred Place!) on Wednesday the 8th of February
1586--to the everlasting Reproach of Elizabeth, her Ministers, and of
England in general. It may not be unnecessary before I entirely conclude
my account of this ill-fated Queen, to observe that she had been accused
of several crimes during the time of her reigning in Scotland, of which
I now most seriously do assure my Reader that she was entirely innocent;
having never been guilty of anything more than Imprudencies into which
she was betrayed by the openness of her Heart, her Youth, and her
Education. Having I trust by this assurance entirely done away every
Suspicion and every doubt which might have arisen in the Reader's mind,
from what other Historians have written of her, I shall proceed to
mention the remaining Events that marked Elizabeth's reign. It was about
this time that Sir Francis Drake the first English Navigator who sailed
round the World, lived, to be the ornament of his Country and his
profession. Yet great as he was, and justly celebrated as a sailor,
I cannot help foreseeing that he will be equalled in this or the next
Century by one who tho' now but young, already promises to answer all
the ardent and sanguine expectations of his Relations and Freinds,
amongst whom I may class the amiable Lady to whom this work is
dedicated, and my no less amiable self.

Though of a different profession, and shining in a different sphere of
Life, yet equally conspicuous in the Character of an Earl, as Drake was
in that of a Sailor, was Robert Devereux Lord Essex. This unfortunate
young Man was not unlike in character to that equally unfortunate
one FREDERIC DELAMERE. The simile may be carried still farther, and
Elizabeth the torment of Essex may be compared to the Emmeline of
Delamere. It would be endless to recount the misfortunes of this noble
and gallant Earl. It is sufficient to say that he was beheaded on the
25th of Feb, after having been Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, after having
clapped his hand on his sword, and after performing many other services
to his Country. Elizabeth did not long survive his loss, and died so
miserable that were it not an injury to the memory of Mary I should pity
her.


JAMES the 1st

Though this King had some faults, among which and as the most principal,
was his allowing his Mother's death, yet considered on the whole I
cannot help liking him. He married Anne of Denmark, and had several
Children; fortunately for him his eldest son Prince Henry died before
his father or he might have experienced the evils which befell his
unfortunate Brother.

As I am myself partial to the roman catholic religion, it is with
infinite regret that I am obliged to blame the Behaviour of any Member
of it: yet Truth being I think very excusable in an Historian, I am
necessitated to say that in this reign the roman Catholics of England
did not behave like Gentlemen to the protestants. Their Behaviour
indeed to the Royal Family and both Houses of Parliament might justly
be considered by them as very uncivil, and even Sir Henry Percy tho'
certainly the best bred man of the party, had none of that general
politeness which is so universally pleasing, as his attentions were
entirely confined to Lord Mounteagle.

Sir Walter Raleigh flourished in this and the preceeding reign, and is
by many people held in great veneration and respect--But as he was an
enemy of the noble Essex, I have nothing to say in praise of him, and
must refer all those who may wish to be acquainted with the particulars
of his life, to Mr Sheridan's play of the Critic, where they will
find many interesting anecdotes as well of him as of his friend Sir
Christopher Hatton.--His Majesty was of that amiable disposition which
inclines to Freindship, and in such points was possessed of a keener
penetration in discovering Merit than many other people. I once heard an
excellent Sharade on a Carpet, of which the subject I am now on reminds
me, and as I think it may afford my Readers some amusement to FIND IT
OUT, I shall here take the liberty of presenting it to them.

SHARADE My first is what my second was to King James the 1st, and you
tread on my whole.

The principal favourites of his Majesty were Car, who was afterwards
created Earl of Somerset and whose name perhaps may have some share
in the above mentioned Sharade, and George Villiers afterwards Duke of
Buckingham. On his Majesty's death he was succeeded by his son Charles.


CHARLES the 1st

This amiable Monarch seems born to have suffered misfortunes equal to
those of his lovely Grandmother; misfortunes which he could not deserve
since he was her descendant. Never certainly were there before so many
detestable Characters at one time in England as in this Period of its
History; never were amiable men so scarce. The number of them throughout
the whole Kingdom amounting only to FI