g several that I want to see. We are to meet a party from
Goodnestone, Lady B., Miss Hawley, and Lucy Foote, and I am to meet Mrs.
Harrison, and we are to talk about Ben and Anna. "My dear Mrs.
Harrison," I shall say, "I am afraid the young man has some of your
family madness; and though there often appears to be something of
madness in Anna too, I think she inherits more of it from her mother's
family than from ours." That is what I shall say, and I think she will
find it difficult to answer me.

I took up your letter again to refresh me, being somewhat tired, and was
struck with the prettiness of the hand: it is really a very pretty hand
now and then,--so small and so neat! I wish I could get as much into a
sheet of paper.[27] Another time I will take two days to make a letter
in: it is fatiguing to write a whole long one at once. I hope to hear
from you again on Sunday and again on Friday, the day before we move.
On Monday, I suppose, you will be going to Streatham, to see quiet Mr.
Hill and eat very bad baker's bread.

A fall in bread by the by. I hope my mother's bill next week will show
it. I have had a very comfortable letter from her, one of her foolscap
sheets quite full of little home news. Anna was there the first of the
two days. An Anna sent away and an Anna fetched are different things.
This will be an excellent time for Ben to pay his visit, now that we,
the formidables, are absent.

I did not mean to eat, but Mr. Johncock has brought in the tray, so I
must. I am all alone. Edward is gone into his woods. At this present
time I have five tables, eight-and-twenty chairs, and two fires all to
myself.

Miss Clewes is to be invited to go to the concert with us; there will be
my brother's place and ticket for her, as he cannot go. He and the other
connections of the Cages are to meet at Milgate that very day, to
consult about a proposed alteration of the Maidstone road, in which the
Cages are very much interested. Sir Brook comes here in the morning, and
they are to be joined by Mr. Deedes at Ashford. The loss of the concert
will be no great evil to the Squire. We shall be a party of three ladies
therefore, and to meet three ladies.

What a convenient carriage Henry's is, to his friends in general! Who
has it next? I am glad William's going is voluntary, and on no worse
grounds. An inclination for the country is a venial fault. He has more
of Cowper than of Johnson in him,--fonder of tame hares and blank verse
than of the full tide of human existence at Charing Cross.

Oh! I have more of such sweet flattery from Miss Sharp. She is an
excellent kind friend. I am read and admired in Ireland too. There is a
Mrs. Fletcher, the wife of a judge, an old lady, and very good and very
clever, who is all curiosity to know about me,--what I am like, and so
forth. I am not known to her by name, however. This comes through Mrs.
Carrick, not through Mrs. Gore. You are quite out there.

I do not despair of having my picture in the Exhibition at last,--all
white and red, with my head on one side; or perhaps I may marry young
Mr. D'Arblay. I suppose in the mean time I shall owe dear Henry a great
deal of money for printing, etc.

I hope Mrs. Fletcher will indulge herself with S. and S. If I am to stay
in H. S., and if you should be writing home soon, I wish you would be so
good as to give a hint of it, for I am not likely to write there again
these ten days, having written yesterday.

Fanny has set her heart upon its being a Mr. Brett who is going to marry
a Miss Dora Best, of this country. I dare say Henry has no objection.
Pray, where did the boys sleep?

The Deedes come here on Monday to stay till Friday, so that we shall end
with a flourish the last canto. They bring Isabella and one of the
grown-ups, and will come in for a Canty. ball on Thursday. I shall be
glad to see them. Mrs. Deedes and I must talk rationally together, I
suppose.

Edward does not write to Henry, because of my writing so often. God
bless you. I shall be so glad to see you again, and I wish you many
happy returns of this day. Poor Lord Howard! How he does cry about it!

                                      Yours very truly,        J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    10 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London.

FOOTNOTE:

[27] I cannot pass this paragraph over without remarking that it is
hardly possible to imagine anything neater or prettier than Jane's own
hand. Most of her letters are beautifully written, and the MS. of her
"Lady Susan" remarkably so.--_Note by Lord_ BRABOURNE.




LII.


                                  GODMERSHAM PARK, Saturday (Nov. 6).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--Having half an hour before breakfast (very snug,
in my own room, lovely morning, excellent fire--fancy me!) I will give
you some account of the last two days. And yet, what is there to be
told? I shall get foolishly minute unless I cut the matter short.

We met only the Bretons at Chilham Castle, besides a Mr. and Mrs.
Osborne and a Miss Lee staying in the house, and were only fourteen
altogether. My brother and Fanny thought it the pleasantest party they
had ever known there, and I was ve