s under my patronage; and, after all, what is
there so delightful in a pair royal of Braggers? It is but three nines
or three knaves, or a mixture of them. When one comes to reason upon it,
it cannot stand its ground against Speculation,--of which I hope Edward
is now convinced. Give my love to him if he is.

The letter from Paragon before mentioned was much like those which had
preceded it, as to the felicity of its writer. They found their house so
dirty and so damp that they were obliged to be a week at an inn. John
Binns had behaved most unhandsomely, and engaged himself elsewhere. They
have a man, however, on the same footing, which my aunt does not like,
and she finds both him and the new maid-servant very, very inferior to
Robert and Martha. Whether they mean to have any other domestics does
not appear, nor whether they are to have a carriage while they are in
Bath.

The Holders are as usual, though I believe it is not very usual for them
to be happy, which they now are at a great rate, in Hooper's marriage.
The Irvines are not mentioned. The American lady improved as we went on;
but still the same faults in part recurred.

We are now in Margiana, and like it very well indeed. We are just going
to set off for Northumberland to be shut up in Widdrington Tower, where
there must be two or three sets of victims already immured under a very
fine villain.

_Wednesday._--Your report of Eliza's health gives me great pleasure, and
the progress of the bank is a constant source of satisfaction. With such
increasing profits, tell Henry that I hope he will not work poor
High-Diddle so hard as he used to do.

Has your newspaper given a sad story of a Mrs. Middleton, wife of a
farmer in Yorkshire, her sister, and servant, being almost frozen to
death in the late weather, her little child quite so? I hope the sister
is not our friend Miss Woodd, and I rather think her brother-in-law had
moved into Lincolnshire, but their name and station accord too well.
Mrs. M. and the maid are said to be tolerably recovered, but the sister
is likely to lose the use of her limbs.

Charles's rug will be finished to-day, and sent to-morrow to Frank, to
be consigned by him to Mr. Turner's care; and I am going to send Marmion
out with it,--very generous in me, I think.

As we have no letter from Adlestrop, we may suppose the good woman was
alive on Monday, but I cannot help expecting bad news from thence or
Bookham in a few days. Do you continue quite well?

Have you nothing to say of your little namesake? We join in love and
many happy returns.

                               Yours affectionately,       J. AUSTEN.

The Manydown ball was a smaller thing than I expected, but it seems to
have made Anna very happy. At her age it would not have done for me.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXXII.


                                 CASTLE SQUARE, Tuesday (January 17).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I am happy to say that we had no second letter from
Bookham last week. Yours has brought its usual measure of satisfaction
and amusement, and I beg your acceptance of all the thanks due on the
occasion. Your offer of cravats is very kind, and happens to be
particularly adapted to my wants, but it was an odd thing to occur to
you.

Yes, we have got another fall of snow, and are very dreadful; everything
seems to turn to snow this winter.

I hope you have had no more illness among you, and that William will be
soon as well as ever. His working a footstool for Chawton is a most
agreeable surprise to me, and I am sure his grandmamma will value it
very much as a proof of his affection and industry, but we shall never
have the heart to put our feet upon it. I believe I must work a muslin
cover in satin stitch to keep it from the dirt. I long to know what his
colors are. I guess greens and purples.

Edward and Henry have started a difficulty respecting our journey,
which, I must own with some confusion, had never been thought of by us;
but if the former expected by it to prevent our travelling into Kent
entirely, he will be disappointed, for we have already determined to go
the Croydon road on leaving Bookham and sleep at Dartford. Will not that
do? There certainly does seem no convenient resting-place on the other
road.

Anna went to Clanville last Friday, and I have hopes of her new aunt's
being really worth her knowing. Perhaps you may never have heard that
James and Mary paid a morning visit there in form some weeks ago, and
Mary, though by no means disposed to like her, was very much pleased
with her indeed. Her praise, to be sure, proves nothing more than Mrs.
M.'s being civil and attentive to them, but her being so is in favor of
her having good sense. Mary writes of Anna as improved in person, but
gives her no other commendation. I am afraid her absence now may deprive
her of one pleasure, for that silly Mr. Hammond is actually to give his
ball on Friday.

We had some reason to expect a visit from Earle Harwood and James this
week, but they do not come. Miss Murden arrived last night at Mrs.
Hookey's, as a message and a baske