here being such a person in the World.

Augusta, the sister of Edward was on a visit to her when we arrived.
I found her exactly what her Brother had described her to be--of the
middle size. She received me with equal surprise though not with equal
Cordiality, as Philippa. There was a disagreable coldness and Forbidding
Reserve in her reception of me which was equally distressing and
Unexpected. None of that interesting Sensibility or amiable simpathy
in her manners and Address to me when we first met which should have
distinguished our introduction to each other. Her Language was neither
warm, nor affectionate, her expressions of regard were neither animated
nor cordial; her arms were not opened to receive me to her Heart, tho'
my own were extended to press her to mine.

A short Conversation between Augusta and her Brother, which I
accidentally overheard encreased my dislike to her, and convinced me
that her Heart was no more formed for the soft ties of Love than for the
endearing intercourse of Freindship.

"But do you think that my Father will ever be reconciled to this
imprudent connection?" (said Augusta.)

"Augusta (replied the noble Youth) I thought you had a better opinion of
me, than to imagine I would so abjectly degrade myself as to consider
my Father's Concurrence in any of my affairs, either of Consequence
or concern to me. Tell me Augusta with sincerity; did you ever know
me consult his inclinations or follow his Advice in the least trifling
Particular since the age of fifteen?"

"Edward (replied she) you are surely too diffident in your own praise.
Since you were fifteen only! My Dear Brother since you were five years
old, I entirely acquit you of ever having willingly contributed to the
satisfaction of your Father. But still I am not without apprehensions
of your being shortly obliged to degrade yourself in your own eyes by
seeking a support for your wife in the Generosity of Sir Edward."

"Never, never Augusta will I so demean myself. (said Edward). Support!
What support will Laura want which she can receive from him?"

"Only those very insignificant ones of Victuals and Drink." (answered
she.)

"Victuals and Drink! (replied my Husband in a most nobly contemptuous
Manner) and dost thou then imagine that there is no other support for
an exalted mind (such as is my Laura's) than the mean and indelicate
employment of Eating and Drinking?"

"None that I know of, so efficacious." (returned Augusta).

"And did you then never feel the pleasing Pangs of Love, Augusta?
(replied my Edward). Does it appear impossible to your vile and
corrupted Palate, to exist on Love? Can you not conceive the Luxury of
living in every distress that Poverty can inflict, with the object of
your tenderest affection?"

"You are too ridiculous (said Augusta) to argue with; perhaps however
you may in time be convinced that..."

Here I was prevented from hearing the remainder of her speech, by the
appearance of a very Handsome young Woman, who was ushured into the Room
at the Door of which I had been listening. On hearing her announced by
the Name of "Lady Dorothea," I instantly quitted my Post and followed
her into the Parlour, for I well remembered that she was the Lady,
proposed as a Wife for my Edward by the Cruel and Unrelenting Baronet.

Altho' Lady Dorothea's visit was nominally to Philippa and Augusta, yet
I have some reason to imagine that (acquainted with the Marriage and
arrival of Edward) to see me was a principal motive to it.

I soon perceived that tho' Lovely and Elegant in her Person and tho'
Easy and Polite in her Address, she was of that inferior order of
Beings with regard to Delicate Feeling, tender Sentiments, and refined
Sensibility, of which Augusta was one.

She staid but half an hour and neither in the Course of her Visit,
confided to me any of her secret thoughts, nor requested me to confide
in her, any of Mine. You will easily imagine therefore my Dear Marianne
that I could not feel any ardent affection or very sincere Attachment
for Lady Dorothea. Adeiu Laura.




LETTER 8th LAURA to MARIANNE, in continuation

Lady Dorothea had not left us long before another visitor as unexpected
a one as her Ladyship, was announced. It was Sir Edward, who informed
by Augusta of her Brother's marriage, came doubtless to reproach him for
having dared to unite himself to me without his Knowledge. But Edward
foreseeing his design, approached him with heroic fortitude as soon as
he entered the Room, and addressed him in the following Manner.

"Sir Edward, I know the motive of your Journey here--You come with the
base Design of reproaching me for having entered into an indissoluble
engagement with my Laura without your Consent. But Sir, I glory in the
Act--. It is my greatest boast that I have incurred the displeasure of
my Father!"

So saying, he took my hand and whilst Sir Edward, Philippa, and Augusta
were doubtless reflecting with admiration on his undaunted Bravery, led
me from the Parlour to his Father's Carriage which yet remained at the
Door and in which we were instantly conveyed from the pursuit of Sir
Edward.

The Postilion