our uncle were at home he would send his
best love, but I will not impose any base fictitious remembrances on
you; mine I can honestly give, and remain

                                        Your affectionate aunt,
                                                          J. AUSTEN.




LXV.


                                               HANS PLACE, Wednesday.

MY DEAR ANNA,--I have been very far from finding your book an evil, I
assure you. I read it immediately and with great pleasure. I think you
are going on very well. The description of Dr. Griffin and Lady Helena's
unhappiness is very good, and just what was likely to be. I am curious
to know what the end of them will be. The name of Newton Priors is
really invaluable; I never met with anything superior to it. It is
delightful, and one could live on the name of Newton Priors for a
twelvemonth. Indeed, I think you get on very fast. I only wish other
people of my acquaintance could compose as rapidly. I am pleased with
the dog scene and with the whole of George and Susan's love, but am more
particularly struck with your serious conversations. They are very good
throughout. St. Julian's history was quite a surprise to me. You had not
very long known it yourself, I suspect; but I have no objection to make
to the circumstance, and it is very well told. His having been in love
with the aunt gives Cecilia an additional interest with him. I like the
idea,--a very proper compliment to an aunt! I rather imagine indeed that
nieces are seldom chosen but out of compliment to some aunt or another.
I dare say Ben was in love with me once, and would never have thought of
you if he had not supposed me dead of scarlet fever. Yes, I was in a
mistake as to the number of books. I thought I had read three before the
three at Chawton, but fewer than six will not do. I want to see dear
Bell Griffin again; and had you not better give some hint of St.
Julian's early history in the beginning of the story?

We shall see nothing of Streatham while we are in town, as Mrs. Hill is
to lie in of a daughter. Mrs. Blackstone is to be with her. Mrs.
Heathcote and Miss Bigg[35] are just leaving. The latter writes me word
that Miss Blackford is married, but I have never seen it in the papers,
and one may as well be single if the wedding is not to be in print.

                                  Your affectionate aunt,      J. A.




LXVI.


                            23 HANS PLACE, Wednesday (Nov. 30, 1814).

I AM very much obliged to you, my dear Fanny, for your letter, and I
hope you will write again soon, that I may know you to be all safe and
happy at home.

Our visit to Hendon will interest you, I am sure; but I need not enter
into the particulars of it, as your papa will be able to answer almost
every question. I certainly could describe her bedroom and her drawers
and her closet better than he can, but I do not feel that I can stop to
do it. I was rather sorry to hear that she is to have an instrument; it
seems throwing money away. They will wish the twenty-four guineas in the
shape of sheets and towels six months hence; and as to her playing, it
never can be anything.

Her purple pelisse rather surprised me. I thought we had known all
paraphernalia of that sort. I do not mean to blame her; it looked very
well, and I dare say she wanted it. I suspect nothing worse than its
being got in secret, and not owned to anybody. I received a very kind
note from her yesterday, to ask me to come again and stay a night with
them. I cannot do it, but I was pleased to find that she had the power
of doing so right a thing. My going was to give them both pleasure very
properly.

I just saw Mr. Hayter at the play, and think his face would please me on
acquaintance. I was sorry he did not dine here. It seemed rather odd to
me to be in the theatre with nobody to watch for. I was quite composed
myself, at leisure for all the agitated Isabella could raise.

Now, my dearest Fanny, I will begin a subject which comes in very
naturally. You frighten me out of my wits by your reference. Your
affection gives me the highest pleasure, but indeed you must not let
anything depend on my opinion; your own feelings, and none but your own,
should determine such an important point. So far, however, as answering
your question, I have no scruple. I am perfectly convinced that your
present feelings, supposing that you were to marry now, would be
sufficient for his happiness; but when I think how very, very far it is
from a "now," and take everything that may be into consideration, I dare
not say, "Determine to accept him;" the risk is too great for you,
unless your own sentiments prompt it.

You will think me perverse, perhaps; in my last letter I was urging
everything in his favor, and now I am inclining the other way, but I
cannot help it; I am at present more impressed with the possible evil
that may arise to you from engaging yourself to him--in word or
mind--than with anything else. When I consider how few young men you
have yet seen much of, how capable you are (yes, I do still think you
very capable) of being really in love, an