our common sitting Parlour, for the
convenience of having it always at Hand. Whether it was from this
circumstance, of its being easily taken, or from a wish of being
independant, or from an excess of sensibility (for which we were always
remarkable) I cannot now determine, but certain it is that when we had
reached our 15th year, we took the nine Hundred Pounds and ran away.
Having obtained this prize we were determined to manage it with eoconomy
and not to spend it either with folly or Extravagance. To this purpose
we therefore divided it into nine parcels, one of which we devoted to
Victuals, the 2d to Drink, the 3d to Housekeeping, the 4th to Carriages,
the 5th to Horses, the 6th to Servants, the 7th to Amusements, the 8th
to Cloathes and the 9th to Silver Buckles. Having thus arranged our
Expences for two months (for we expected to make the nine Hundred Pounds
last as long) we hastened to London and had the good luck to spend it in
7 weeks and a Day which was 6 Days sooner than we had intended. As soon
as we had thus happily disencumbered ourselves from the weight of
so much money, we began to think of returning to our Mothers, but
accidentally hearing that they were both starved to Death, we gave over
the design and determined to engage ourselves to some strolling Company
of Players, as we had always a turn for the Stage. Accordingly we
offered our services to one and were accepted; our Company was
indeed rather small, as it consisted only of the Manager his wife
and ourselves, but there were fewer to pay and the only inconvenience
attending it was the Scarcity of Plays which for want of People to fill
the Characters, we could perform. We did not mind trifles however--.
One of our most admired Performances was MACBETH, in which we were
truly great. The Manager always played BANQUO himself, his Wife my LADY
MACBETH. I did the THREE WITCHES and Philander acted ALL THE REST. To
say the truth this tragedy was not only the Best, but the only Play
that we ever performed; and after having acted it all over England, and
Wales, we came to Scotland to exhibit it over the remainder of Great
Britain. We happened to be quartered in that very Town, where you came
and met your Grandfather--. We were in the Inn-yard when his Carriage
entered and perceiving by the arms to whom it belonged, and knowing
that Lord St Clair was our Grandfather, we agreed to endeavour to get
something from him by discovering the Relationship--. You know how well
it succeeded--. Having obtained the two Hundred Pounds, we instantly
left the Town, leaving our Manager and his Wife to act MACBETH by
themselves, and took the road to Sterling, where we spent our little
fortune with great ECLAT. We are now returning to Edinburgh in order to
get some preferment in the Acting way; and such my Dear Cousin is our
History."

I thanked the amiable Youth for his entertaining narration, and after
expressing my wishes for their Welfare and Happiness, left them in
their little Habitation and returned to my other Freinds who impatiently
expected me.

My adventures are now drawing to a close my dearest Marianne; at least
for the present.

When we arrived at Edinburgh Sir Edward told me that as the Widow of his
son, he desired I would accept from his Hands of four Hundred a year. I
graciously promised that I would, but could not help observing that the
unsimpathetic Baronet offered it more on account of my being the Widow
of Edward than in being the refined and amiable Laura.

I took up my Residence in a Romantic Village in the Highlands
of Scotland where I have ever since continued, and where I can
uninterrupted by unmeaning Visits, indulge in a melancholy solitude, my
unceasing Lamentations for the Death of my Father, my Mother, my Husband
and my Freind.

Augusta has been for several years united to Graham the Man of all
others most suited to her; she became acquainted with him during her
stay in Scotland.

Sir Edward in hopes of gaining an Heir to his Title and Estate, at the
same time married Lady Dorothea--. His wishes have been answered.

Philander and Gustavus, after having raised their reputation by their
Performances in the Theatrical Line at Edinburgh, removed to Covent
Garden, where they still exhibit under the assumed names of LUVIS and
QUICK.

Philippa has long paid the Debt of Nature, Her Husband however still
continues to drive the Stage-Coach from Edinburgh to Sterling:--Adeiu my
Dearest Marianne. Laura.

Finis

June 13th 1790.




*****




AN UNFINISHED NOVEL IN LETTERS


To HENRY THOMAS AUSTEN Esqre.

Sir

I am now availing myself of the Liberty you have frequently honoured
me with of dedicating one of my Novels to you. That it is unfinished, I
greive; yet fear that from me, it will always remain so; that as far
as it is carried, it should be so trifling and so unworthy of you, is
another concern to your obliged humble Servant

The Author


Messrs Demand and Co--please to pay Jane Austen Spinster the sum of one
hundred guineas on account of your Humble Servant.

H. T. Austen

L105. 0. 0.

*****




LESLEY CASTLE




LETTER the FIRST is from Miss MARGARET LESL