resees how it will
all be. I finished the "Heroine" last night, and was very much amused by
it. I wonder James did not like it better. It diverted me exceedingly.
We went to bed at ten. I was very tired, but slept to a miracle, and am
lovely to-day, and at present Henry seems to have no complaint. We left
Cobham at half-past eight, stopped to bait and breakfast at Kingston,
and were in this house considerably before two. Nice smiling Mr. Barlowe
met us at the door, and, in reply to inquiries after news, said that
peace was generally expected. I have taken possession of my bedroom,
unpacked my bandbox, sent Miss P.'s two letters to the twopenny post,
been visited by M^{d.} B., and am now writing by myself at the new table
in the front room. It is snowing. We had some snowstorms yesterday, and
a smart frost at night, which gave us a hard road from Cobham to
Kingston; but as it was then getting dirty and heavy, Henry had a pair
of leaders put on to the bottom of Sloane St. His own horses, therefore,
cannot have had hard work. I watched for veils as we drove through the
streets, and had the pleasure of seeing several upon vulgar heads. And
now, how do you all do?--you in particular, after the worry of yesterday
and the day before. I hope Martha had a pleasant visit again, and that
you and my mother could eat your beef-pudding. Depend upon my thinking
of the chimney-sweeper as soon as I wake to-morrow. Places are secured
at Drury Lane for Saturday, but so great is the rage for seeing Kean
that only a third and fourth row could be got; as it is in a front box,
however, I hope we shall do pretty well--Shylock, a good play for
Fanny--she cannot be much affected, I think. Mrs. Perigord has just been
here. She tells me that we owe her master for the silk-dyeing. My poor
old muslin has never been dyed yet. It has been promised to be done
several times. What wicked people dyers are! They begin with dipping
their own souls in scarlet sin. It is evening. We have drank tea, and I
have torn through the third vol. of the "Heroine." I do not think it
falls off. It is a delightful burlesque, particularly on the Radcliffe
style. Henry is going on with "Mansfield Park." He admires H. Crawford:
I mean properly, as a clever, pleasant man. I tell you all the good I
can, as I know how much you will enjoy it. We hear that Mr. Kean is more
admired than ever. There are no good places to be got in Drury Lane for
the next fortnight, but Henry means to secure some for Saturday
fortnight, when you are reckoned upon. Give my love to little Cass. I
hope she found my bed comfortable last night. I have seen nobody in
London yet with such a long chin as Dr. Syntax, nor anybody quite so
large as Gogmagolicus.

                                    Yours aff^{ly},       J. AUSTEN.

FOOTNOTES:

[28] Mrs. Rushworth in "Mansfield Park."

[29] Lady Bertram and Mrs. Norris.




LIV.


                                  HENRIETTA ST., Wednesday (March 9).

WELL, we went to the play again last night, and as we were out a great
part of the morning too, shopping, and seeing the Indian jugglers, I am
very glad to be quiet now till dressing-time. We are to dine at the
Tilsons', and to-morrow at Mr. Spencer's.

We had not done breakfast yesterday when Mr. J. Plumptre appeared to say
that he had secured a box. Henry asked him to dine here, which I fancy
he was very happy to do, and so at five o'clock we four sat down to
table together, while the master of the house was preparing for going
out himself. The "Farmer's Wife" is a musical thing in three acts, and
as Edward was steady in not staying for anything more, we were at home
before ten.

Fanny and Mr. J. P. are delighted with Miss S., and her merit in singing
is, I dare say, very great; that she gave me no pleasure is no
reflection upon her, nor, I hope, upon myself, being what Nature made me
on that article. All that I am sensible of in Miss S. is a pleasing
person and no skill in acting. We had Mathews, Liston, and Emery; of
course, some amusement.

Our friends were off before half-past eight this morning, and had the
prospect of a heavy cold journey before them. I think they both liked
their visit very much. I am sure Fanny did. Henry sees decided
attachment between her and his new acquaintance.

I have a cold, too, as well as my mother and Martha. Let it be a
generous emulation between us which can get rid of it first.

I wear my gauze gown to-day, long sleeves and all. I shall see how they
succeed, but as yet I have no reason to suppose long sleeves are
allowable. I have lowered the bosom, especially at the corners, and
plaited black satin ribbon round the top. Such will be my costume of
vine-leaves and paste.

Prepare for a play the very first evening, I rather think Covent Garden,
to see Young in "Richard." I have answered for your little companion's
being conveyed to Keppel St. immediately. I have never yet been able to
get there myself, but hope I shall soon.

What cruel weather this is! and here is Lord Portsmouth married, too, to
Miss Hanson.[30]

Henry has finished "Mansfield Park," and his approbation has not
les