
and can never have our spare bed filled more to our satisfaction than by
him. Does he leave Eltham at Easter?

We are reading "Clarentine," and are surprised to find how foolish it
is. I remember liking it much less on a second reading than at the
first, and it does not bear a third at all. It is full of unnatural
conduct and forced difficulties, without striking merit of any kind.

Miss Harrison is going into Devonshire, to attend Mrs. Dusantoy, as
usual. Miss J. is married to young Mr. G., and is to be very unhappy. He
swears, drinks, is cross, jealous, selfish, and brutal. The match makes
her family miserable, and has occasioned his being disinherited.

The Browns are added to our list of acquaintance. He commands the Sea
Fencibles here, under Sir Thomas, and was introduced at his own desire
by the latter when we saw him last week. As yet the gentlemen only have
visited, as Mrs. B. is ill; but she is a nice-looking woman, and wears
one of the prettiest straw bonnets in the place.

_Monday._--The garret beds are made, and ours will be finished to-day. I
had hoped it would be finished on Saturday, but neither Mrs. Hall nor
Jenny was able to give help enough for that, and I have as yet done very
little, and Mary nothing at all. This week we shall do more, and I
should like to have all the five beds completed by the end of it. There
will then be the window-curtains, sofa-cover, and a carpet to be
altered.

I should not be surprised if we were to be visited by James again this
week; he gave us reason to expect him soon, and if they go to Eversley
he cannot come next week.

There, I flatter myself I have constructed you a smartish letter,
considering my want of materials; but, like my dear Dr. Johnson, I
believe I have dealt more in notions than facts.

I hope your cough is gone, and that you are otherwise well, and remain,
with love,

                                    Yours affectionately,      J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXIV.


                             GODMERSHAM, Wednesday (June 15, 1808).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Where shall I begin? Which of all my important
nothings shall I tell you first? At half after seven yesterday morning
Henry saw us into our own carriage, and we drove away from the Bath
Hotel; which, by the by, had been found most uncomfortable
quarters,--very dirty, very noisy, and very ill-provided. James began
his journey by the coach at five. Our first eight miles were hot;
Deptford Hill brought to my mind our hot journey into Kent fourteen
years ago; but after Blackheath we suffered nothing, and as the day
advanced it grew quite cool. At Dartford, which we reached within the
two hours and three-quarters, we went to the Bull, the same inn at
which we breakfasted in that said journey, and on the present occasion
had about the same bad butter.

At half-past ten we were again off, and, travelling on without any
adventure reached Sittingbourne by three. Daniel was watching for us at
the door of the George, and I was acknowledged very kindly by Mr. and
Mrs. Marshall, to the latter of whom I devoted my conversation, while
Mary went out to buy some gloves. A few minutes, of course, did for
Sittingbourne; and so off we drove, drove, drove, and by six o'clock
were at Godmersham.

Our two brothers were walking before the house as we approached, as
natural as life. Fanny and Lizzy met us in the Hall with a great deal of
pleasant joy; we went for a few minutes into the breakfast-parlor, and
then proceeded to our rooms. Mary has the Hall chamber. I am in the
Yellow room--very literally--for I am writing in it at this moment. It
seems odd to me to have such a great place all to myself, and to be at
Godmersham without you is also odd.

You are wished for, I assure you: Fanny, who came to me as soon as she
had seen her Aunt James to her room, and stayed while I dressed, was as
energetic as usual in her longings for you. She is grown both in height
and size since last year, but not immoderately, looks very well, and
seems as to conduct and manner just what she was and what one could wish
her to continue.

Elizabeth,[5] who was dressing when we arrived, came to me for a minute
attended by Marianne, Charles, and Louisa, and, you will not doubt, gave
me a very affectionate welcome. That I had received such from Edward
also I need not mention; but I do, you see, because it is a pleasure. I
never saw him look in better health, and Fanny says he is perfectly
well. I cannot praise Elizabeth's looks, but they are probably affected
by a cold. Her little namesake has gained in beauty in the last three
years, though not all that Marianne has lost. Charles is not quite so
lovely as he was. Louisa is much as I expected, and Cassandra I find
handsomer than I expected, though at present disguised by such a violent
breaking-out that she does not come down after dinner. She has charming
eyes and a nice open countenance, and seems likely to be very lovable.
Her size is magnificent.

I was agreeably surprised to find Louisa Bridges still here. She looks
remarkably well (legacies are very wholesome diet), an