le of the first week was over, his spirits might for a time
be more depressed; and perhaps one must still expect something of the
kind. If you escape a bilious attack, I shall wonder almost as much as
rejoice. I am glad you mentioned where Catherine goes to-day; it is a
good plan, but sensible people may generally be trusted to form such.

The day began cheerfully, but it is not likely to continue what it
should, for them or for us. We had a little water-party yesterday; I and
my two nephews went from the Itchen Ferry up to Northam, where we
landed, looked into the 74, and walked home, and it was so much enjoyed
that I had intended to take them to Netley to-day; the tide is just
right for our going immediately after moonshine, but I am afraid there
will be rain; if we cannot get so far, however, we may perhaps go round
from the ferry to the quay.

I had not proposed doing more than cross the Itchen yesterday, but it
proved so pleasant, and so much to the satisfaction of all, that when we
reached the middle of the stream we agreed to be rowed up the river;
both the boys rowed great part of the way, and their questions and
remarks, as well as their enjoyment, were very amusing; George's
inquiries were endless, and his eagerness in everything reminds me often
of his uncle Henry.

Our evening was equally agreeable in its way: I introduced speculation,
and it was so much approved that we hardly knew how to leave off.

Your idea of an early dinner to-morrow is exactly what we propose, for,
after writing the first part of this letter, it came into my head that
at this time of year we have not summer evenings. We shall watch the
light to-day, that we may not give them a dark drive to-morrow.

They send their best love to papa and everybody, with George's thanks
for the letter brought by this post. Martha begs my brother may be
assured of her interest in everything relating to him and his family,
and of her sincerely partaking our pleasure in the receipt of every good
account from Godmersham.

Of Chawton I think I can have nothing more to say, but that everything
you say about it in the letter now before me will, I am sure, as soon as
I am able to read it to her, make my mother consider the plan with more
and more pleasure. We had formed the same views on H. Digweed's farm.

A very kind and feeling letter is arrived to-day from Kintbury. Mrs.
Fowle's sympathy and solicitude on such an occasion you will be able to
do justice to, and to express it as she wishes to my brother. Concerning
you, she says: "Cassandra will, I know, excuse my writing to her; it is
not to save myself but her that I omit so doing. Give my best, my
kindest love to her, and tell her I feel for her as I know she would for
me on the same occasion, and that I most sincerely hope her health will
not suffer."

We have just had two hampers of apples from Kintbury, and the floor of
our little garret is almost covered. Love to all.

                                Yours very affectionately,      J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXVIII.


                                    CASTLE SQUARE, Sunday (November 21).

YOUR letter, my dear Cassandra, obliges me to write immediately, that
you may have the earliest notice of Frank's intending, if possible, to
go to Godmersham exactly at the time now fixed for your visit to
Goodnestone.

He resolved, almost directly on the receipt of your former letter, to
try for an extension of his leave of absence, that he might be able to
go down to you for two days, but charged me not to give you any notice
of it, on account of the uncertainty of success. Now, however, I must
give it, and now perhaps he may be giving it himself; for I am just in
the hateful predicament of being obliged to write what I know will
somehow or other be of no use.

He meant to ask for five days more, and if they were granted, to go down
by Thursday night's mail, and spend Friday and Saturday with you; and he
considered his chance of succeeding by no means bad. I hope it will take
place as he planned, and that your arrangements with Goodnestone may
admit of suitable alteration.

Your news of Edward Bridges was quite news, for I have had no letter
from Wrotham. I wish him happy with all my heart, and hope his choice
may turn out according to his own expectations, and beyond those of his
family; and I dare say it will. Marriage is a great improver, and in a
similar situation Harriet may be as amiable as Eleanor. As to money,
that will come, you may be sure, because they cannot do without it. When
you see him again, pray give him our congratulations and best wishes.
This match will certainly set John and Lucy going.

There are six bedchambers at Chawton; Henry wrote to my mother the other
day, and luckily mentioned the number, which is just what we wanted to
be assured of. He speaks also of garrets for store-places, one of which
she immediately planned fitting up for Edward's man-servant; and now
perhaps it must be for our own; for she is already quite reconciled to
our keeping one. The difficulty of doing without one