d surprise were strongly depictured in your Mother's countenance,
during the whole of my narration, but I am sorry to say, that to the
eternal reproach of her sensibility, the latter infinitely predominated.
Nay, faultless as my conduct had certainly been during the whole course
of my late misfortunes and adventures, she pretended to find fault with
my behaviour in many of the situations in which I had been placed. As
I was sensible myself, that I had always behaved in a manner which
reflected Honour on my Feelings and Refinement, I paid little attention
to what she said, and desired her to satisfy my Curiosity by informing
me how she came there, instead of wounding my spotless reputation with
unjustifiable Reproaches. As soon as she had complyed with my wishes in
this particular and had given me an accurate detail of every thing that
had befallen her since our separation (the particulars of which if you
are not already acquainted with, your Mother will give you) I applied to
Augusta for the same information respecting herself, Sir Edward and Lady
Dorothea.

She told me that having a considerable taste for the Beauties of Nature,
her curiosity to behold the delightful scenes it exhibited in that part
of the World had been so much raised by Gilpin's Tour to the Highlands,
that she had prevailed on her Father to undertake a Tour to Scotland and
had persuaded Lady Dorothea to accompany them. That they had arrived at
Edinburgh a few Days before and from thence had made daily Excursions
into the Country around in the Stage Coach they were then in, from one
of which Excursions they were at that time returning. My next enquiries
were concerning Philippa and her Husband, the latter of whom I learned
having spent all her fortune, had recourse for subsistence to the talent
in which, he had always most excelled, namely, Driving, and that
having sold every thing which belonged to them except their Coach, had
converted it into a Stage and in order to be removed from any of his
former Acquaintance, had driven it to Edinburgh from whence he went to
Sterling every other Day. That Philippa still retaining her affection
for her ungratefull Husband, had followed him to Scotland and generally
accompanied him in his little Excursions to Sterling. "It has only been
to throw a little money into their Pockets (continued Augusta) that my
Father has always travelled in their Coach to veiw the beauties of the
Country since our arrival in Scotland--for it would certainly have been
much more agreable to us, to visit the Highlands in a Postchaise
than merely to travel from Edinburgh to Sterling and from Sterling
to Edinburgh every other Day in a crowded and uncomfortable Stage." I
perfectly agreed with her in her sentiments on the affair, and secretly
blamed Sir Edward for thus sacrificing his Daughter's Pleasure for the
sake of a ridiculous old woman whose folly in marrying so young a man
ought to be punished. His Behaviour however was entirely of a peice
with his general Character; for what could be expected from a man who
possessed not the smallest atom of Sensibility, who scarcely knew the
meaning of simpathy, and who actually snored--. Adeiu Laura.




LETTER the 15th LAURA in continuation.

When we arrived at the town where we were to Breakfast, I was determined
to speak with Philander and Gustavus, and to that purpose as soon as
I left the Carriage, I went to the Basket and tenderly enquired after
their Health, expressing my fears of the uneasiness of their situation.
At first they seemed rather confused at my appearance dreading no doubt
that I might call them to account for the money which our Grandfather
had left me and which they had unjustly deprived me of, but finding
that I mentioned nothing of the Matter, they desired me to step into
the Basket as we might there converse with greater ease. Accordingly I
entered and whilst the rest of the party were devouring green tea and
buttered toast, we feasted ourselves in a more refined and sentimental
Manner by a confidential Conversation. I informed them of every thing
which had befallen me during the course of my life, and at my request
they related to me every incident of theirs.

"We are the sons as you already know, of the two youngest Daughters
which Lord St Clair had by Laurina an italian opera girl. Our mothers
could neither of them exactly ascertain who were our Father, though it
is generally beleived that Philander, is the son of one Philip Jones
a Bricklayer and that my Father was one Gregory Staves a Staymaker of
Edinburgh. This is however of little consequence for as our Mothers were
certainly never married to either of them it reflects no Dishonour on
our Blood, which is of a most ancient and unpolluted kind. Bertha (the
Mother of Philander) and Agatha (my own Mother) always lived together.
They were neither of them very rich; their united fortunes had
originally amounted to nine thousand Pounds, but as they had always
lived on the principal of it, when we were fifteen it was diminished to
nine Hundred. This nine Hundred they always kept in a Drawer in one
of the Tables which stood in 