dirty. Steventon lane has its full share of
it, and I don't know when I shall be able to get to Deane.

I hear that Martha is in better looks and spirits than she has enjoyed
for a long time, and I flatter myself she will now be able to jest
openly about Mr. W.

The spectacles which Molly found are my mother's, the scissors my
father's. We are very glad to hear such a good account of your patients,
little and great. My dear itty Dordy's remembrance of me is very
pleasing to me,--foolishly pleasing, because I know it will be over so
soon. My attachment to him will be more durable. I shall think with
tenderness and delight on his beautiful and smiling countenance and
interesting manner until a few years have turned him into an
ungovernable, ungracious fellow.

The books from Winton are all unpacked and put away; the binding has
compressed them most conveniently, and there is now very good room in
the bookcase for all that we wish to have there. I believe the servants
were very glad to see us Nanny was, I am sure. She confesses that it
was very dull, and yet she had her child with her till last Sunday. I
understand that there are some grapes left, but I believe not many; they
must be gathered as soon as possible, or this rain will entirely rot
them.

I am quite angry with myself for not writing closer; why is my alphabet
so much more sprawly than yours? Dame Tilbury's daughter has lain in.
Shall I give her any of your baby clothes? The laceman was here only a
few days ago. How unfortunate for both of us that he came so soon! Dame
Bushell washes for us only one week more, as Sukey has got a place. John
Steevens' wife undertakes our purification. She does not look as if
anything she touched would ever be clean, but who knows? We do not seem
likely to have any other maidservant at present, but Dame Staples will
supply the place of one. Mary has hired a young girl from Ashe who has
never been out to service to be her scrub, but James fears her not being
strong enough for the place.

Earle Harwood has been to Deane lately, as I think Mary wrote us word,
and his family then told him that they would receive his wife, if she
continued to behave well for another year. He was very grateful, as well
he might; their behavior throughout the whole affair has been
particularly kind. Earle and his wife live in the most private manner
imaginable at Portsmouth, without keeping a servant of any kind. What a
prodigious innate love of virtue she must have, to marry under such
circumstances!

It is now Saturday evening, but I wrote the chief of this in the
morning. My mother has not been down at all to-day; the laudanum made
her sleep a good deal, and upon the whole I think she is better. My
father and I dined by ourselves. How strange! He and John Bond are now
very happy together, for I have just heard the heavy step of the latter
along the passage.

James Digweed called to-day, and I gave him his brother's deputation.
Charles Harwood, too, has just called to ask how we are, in his way from
Dummer, whither he has been conveying Miss Garrett, who is going to
return to her former residence in Kent. I will leave off, or I shall not
have room to add a word to-morrow.

_Sunday._--My mother has had a very good night, and feels much better
to-day.

I have received my aunt's letter, and thank you for your scrap. I will
write to Charles soon. Pray give Fanny and Edward a kiss from me, and
ask George if he has got a new song for me. 'Tis really very kind of my
aunt to ask us to Bath again; a kindness that deserves a better return
than to profit by it.

                                                 Yours ever,      J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




VIII.


                                                 STEVENTON, December 1.

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I am so good as to write to you again thus speedily,
to let you know that I have just heard from Frank. He was at Cadiz,
alive and well, on October 19, and had then very lately received a
letter from you, written as long ago as when the "London" was at St.
Helen's. But his _raly_ latest intelligence of us was in one from me of
September 1, which I sent soon after we got to Godmersham. He had
written a packet full for his dearest friends in England, early in
October, to go by the "Excellent;" but the "Excellent" was not sailed,
nor likely to sail, when he despatched this to me. It comprehended
letters for both of us, for Lord Spencer, Mr. Daysh, and the East India
Directors. Lord St. Vincent had left the fleet when he wrote, and was
gone to Gibraltar, it was said to superintend the fitting out of a
private expedition from thence against some of the enemies' ports;
Minorca or Malta were conjectured to be the objects.

Frank writes in good spirits, but says that our correspondence cannot be
so easily carried on in future as it has been, as the communication
between Cadiz and Lisbon is less frequent than formerly. You and my
mother, therefore, must not alarm yourselves at the long intervals that
may divide his letters. I address this advice to you two as being the
most tender-hearted of 