t she?" "Yes Ma'am we were in the
middle of dinner when your Ladyship came." "I am afraid you find it very
cold Maria." said Ellen. "Yes, it is an horrible East wind--said her
Mother--I assure you I can hardly bear the window down--But you are used
to be blown about by the wind Miss Maria and that is what has made your
Complexion so rudely and coarse. You young Ladies who cannot often ride
in a Carriage never mind what weather you trudge in, or how the wind
shews your legs. I would not have my Girls stand out of doors as you do
in such a day as this. But some sort of people have no feelings either
of cold or Delicacy--Well, remember that we shall expect you on Thursday
at 5 o'clock--You must tell your Maid to come for you at night--There
will be no Moon--and you will have an horrid walk home--My compts to
Your Mother--I am afraid your dinner will be cold--Drive on--" And away
she went, leaving me in a great passion with her as she always does.
Maria Williams.




LETTER the FOURTH From a YOUNG LADY rather impertinent to her freind

We dined yesterday with Mr Evelyn where we were introduced to a very
agreable looking Girl his Cousin. I was extremely pleased with her
appearance, for added to the charms of an engaging face, her manner and
voice had something peculiarly interesting in them. So much so, that
they inspired me with a great curiosity to know the history of her Life,
who were her Parents, where she came from, and what had befallen her,
for it was then only known that she was a relation of Mr Evelyn, and
that her name was Grenville. In the evening a favourable opportunity
offered to me of attempting at least to know what I wished to know, for
every one played at Cards but Mrs Evelyn, My Mother, Dr Drayton, Miss
Grenville and myself, and as the two former were engaged in a whispering
Conversation, and the Doctor fell asleep, we were of necessity obliged
to entertain each other. This was what I wished and being determined not
to remain in ignorance for want of asking, I began the Conversation in
the following Manner.

"Have you been long in Essex Ma'am?"

"I arrived on Tuesday."

"You came from Derbyshire?"

"No, Ma'am! appearing surprised at my question, from Suffolk." You will
think this a good dash of mine my dear Mary, but you know that I am not
wanting for Impudence when I have any end in veiw. "Are you pleased with
the Country Miss Grenville? Do you find it equal to the one you have
left?"

"Much superior Ma'am in point of Beauty." She sighed. I longed to know
for why.

"But the face of any Country however beautiful said I, can be but a poor
consolation for the loss of one's dearest Freinds." She shook her
head, as if she felt the truth of what I said. My Curiosity was so much
raised, that I was resolved at any rate to satisfy it.

"You regret having left Suffolk then Miss Grenville?" "Indeed I do."
"You were born there I suppose?" "Yes Ma'am I was and passed many happy
years there--"

"That is a great comfort--said I--I hope Ma'am that you never spent any
unhappy one's there."

"Perfect Felicity is not the property of Mortals, and no one has a right
to expect uninterrupted Happiness.--Some Misfortunes I have certainly
met with."

"WHAT Misfortunes dear Ma'am? replied I, burning with impatience to know
every thing. "NONE Ma'am I hope that have been the effect of any wilfull
fault in me." "I dare say not Ma'am, and have no doubt but that any
sufferings you may have experienced could arise only from the cruelties
of Relations or the Errors of Freinds." She sighed--"You seem unhappy
my dear Miss Grenville--Is it in my power to soften your Misfortunes?"
"YOUR power Ma'am replied she extremely surprised; it is in NO ONES
power to make me happy." She pronounced these words in so mournfull and
solemn an accent, that for some time I had not courage to reply. I
was actually silenced. I recovered myself however in a few moments and
looking at her with all the affection I could, "My dear Miss Grenville
said I, you appear extremely young--and may probably stand in need of
some one's advice whose regard for you, joined to superior Age, perhaps
superior Judgement might authorise her to give it. I am that person, and
I now challenge you to accept the offer I make you of my Confidence and
Freindship, in return to which I shall only ask for yours--"

"You are extremely obliging Ma'am--said she--and I am highly flattered
by your attention to me--But I am in no difficulty, no doubt, no
uncertainty of situation in which any advice can be wanted. Whenever I
am however continued she brightening into a complaisant smile, I shall
know where to apply."

I bowed, but felt a good deal mortified by such a repulse; still however
I had not given up my point. I found that by the appearance of sentiment
and Freindship nothing was to be gained and determined therefore to
renew my attacks by Questions and suppositions. "Do you intend staying
long in this part of England Miss Grenville?"

"Yes Ma'am, some time I beleive."

"But how will Mr and Mrs Grenville bear your absence?"

"They are neither of them alive Ma'am." This was an answer I did not
ex