There shall be two full
stops in every line. Layton and Shear's is Bedford House. We mean to
get there before breakfast if it's possible; for we feel more and more
how much we have to do and how little time. This house looks very nice.
It seems like Sloane Street moved here. I believe Henry is just rid of
Sloane Street. Fanny does not come, but I have Edward seated by me
beginning a letter, which looks natural.

Henry has been suffering from the pain in the face which he has been
subject to before. He caught cold at Matlock, and since his return has
been paying a little for past pleasure. It is nearly removed now, but he
looks thin in the face, either from the pain or the fatigues of his
tour, which must have been great.

Lady Robert is delighted with P. and P.,[21] and really was so, as I
understand, before she knew who wrote it, for of course she knows now.
He told her with as much satisfaction as if it were my wish. He did not
tell me this, but he told Fanny. And Mr. Hastings! I am quite delighted
with what such a man writes about it. Henry sent him the books after his
return from Daylesford, but you will hear the letter too.

Let me be rational, and return to my two full stops.

I talked to Henry at the play last night. We were in a private box,--Mr.
Spencer's,--which made it much more pleasant. The box is directly on
the stage. One is infinitely less fatigued than in the common way. But
Henry's plans are not what one could wish. He does not mean to be at
Chawton till the 29th. He must be in town again by Oct. 5. His plan is
to get a couple of days of pheasant shooting and then return directly.
His wish was to bring you back with him. I have told him your scruples.
He wishes you to suit yourself as to time, and if you cannot come till
later, will send for you at any time as far as Bagshot. He presumed you
would not find difficulty in getting so far. I could not say you would.
He proposed your going with him into Oxfordshire. It was his own thought
at first. I could not but catch at it for you.

We have talked of it again this morning (for now we have breakfasted),
and I am convinced that if you can make it suit in other respects you
need not scruple on his account. If you cannot come back with him on the
3rd or 4th, therefore, I do hope you will contrive to go to Adlestrop.
By not beginning your absence till about the middle of this month I
think you may manage it very well. But you will think all this over. One
could wish he had intended to come to you earlier, but it cannot be
helped.

I said nothing to him of Mrs. H. and Miss B., that he might not suppose
difficulties. Shall not you put them into our own room? This seems to
me the best plan, and the maid will be most conveniently near.

Oh, dear me! when I shall ever have done. We did go to Layton and
Shear's before breakfast. Very pretty English poplins at 4_s._ 3_d._;
Irish, ditto at 6_s._; more pretty, certainly,--beautiful.

Fanny and the two little girls are gone to take places for to-night at
Covent Garden; "Clandestine Marriage" and "Midas." The latter will be a
fine show for L. and M.[22] They revelled last night in "Don Juan," whom
we left in hell at half-past eleven. We had scaramouch and a ghost, and
were delighted. I speak of them; my delight was very tranquil, and the
rest of us were sober-minded. "Don Juan" was the last of three musical
things. "Five Hours at Brighton," in three acts,--of which one was over
before we arrived, none the worse,--and the "Beehive," rather less flat
and trumpery.

I have this moment received 5_l._ from kind, beautiful Edward. Fanny has
a similar gift. I shall save what I can of it for your better leisure in
this place. My letter was from Miss Sharpe,--nothing particular. A
letter from Fanny Cage this morning.

_Four o'clock._--We are just come back from doing Mrs. Tickars, Miss
Hare, and Mr. Spence. Mr. Hall is here, and while Fanny is under his
hands, I will try to write a little more.

Miss Hare had some pretty caps, and is to make me one like one of them,
only white satin instead of blue. It will be white satin and lace, and a
little white flower perking out of the left ear, like Harriot Byron's
feather. I have allowed her to go as far as 1_l._ 16_s._ My gown is to
be trimmed everywhere with white ribbon plaited on somehow or other. She
says it will look well. I am not sanguine. They trim with white very
much.

I learnt from Mrs. Tickars's young lady, to my high amusement, that the
stays now are not made to force the bosom up at all; that was a very
unbecoming, unnatural fashion. I was really glad to hear that they are
not to be so much off the shoulders as they were.

Going to Mr. Spence's was a sad business, and cost us many tears;
unluckily we were obliged to go a second time before he could do more
than just look. We went first at half-past twelve and afterwards at
three; papa with us each time; and, alas! we are to go again to-morrow.
Lizzy is not finished yet. There have been no teeth taken out, however,
nor will be, I believe; but he finds hers in a very bad state, and seems
to think particularly ill of their durabl