e to be
extravagant."

"She was just sitting down to supper Ma'am."

"And what had she got for supper?" "I did not observe." "Bread and
Cheese I suppose." "I should never wish for a better supper." said
Ellen. "You have never any reason replied her Mother, as a better is
always provided for you." Miss Greville laughed excessively, as she
constantly does at her Mother's wit.

Such is the humiliating Situation in which I am forced to appear while
riding in her Ladyship's Coach--I dare not be impertinent, as my Mother
is always admonishing me to be humble and patient if I wish to make my
way in the world. She insists on my accepting every invitation of Lady
Greville, or you may be certain that I would never enter either her
House, or her Coach with the disagreable certainty I always have of
being abused for my Poverty while I am in them.--When we arrived at
Ashburnham, it was nearly ten o'clock, which was an hour and a half
later than we were desired to be there; but Lady Greville is too
fashionable (or fancies herself to be so) to be punctual. The Dancing
however was not begun as they waited for Miss Greville. I had not been
long in the room before I was engaged to dance by Mr Bernard, but just
as we were going to stand up, he recollected that his Servant had got
his white Gloves, and immediately ran out to fetch them. In the mean
time the Dancing began and Lady Greville in passing to another room went
exactly before me--She saw me and instantly stopping, said to me though
there were several people close to us,

"Hey day, Miss Maria! What cannot you get a partner? Poor Young Lady!
I am afraid your new Gown was put on for nothing. But do not despair;
perhaps you may get a hop before the Evening is over." So saying, she
passed on without hearing my repeated assurance of being engaged, and
leaving me very much provoked at being so exposed before every one--Mr
Bernard however soon returned and by coming to me the moment he entered
the room, and leading me to the Dancers my Character I hope was cleared
from the imputation Lady Greville had thrown on it, in the eyes of all
the old Ladies who had heard her speech. I soon forgot all my vexations
in the pleasure of dancing and of having the most agreable partner in
the room. As he is moreover heir to a very large Estate I could see that
Lady Greville did not look very well pleased when she found who had been
his Choice--She was determined to mortify me, and accordingly when we
were sitting down between the dances, she came to me with more than her
usual insulting importance attended by Miss Mason and said loud enough
to be heard by half the people in the room, "Pray Miss Maria in what
way of business was your Grandfather? for Miss Mason and I cannot agree
whether he was a Grocer or a Bookbinder." I saw that she wanted to
mortify me, and was resolved if I possibly could to Prevent her seeing
that her scheme succeeded. "Neither Madam; he was a Wine Merchant."
"Aye, I knew he was in some such low way--He broke did not he?" "I
beleive not Ma'am." "Did not he abscond?" "I never heard that he did."
"At least he died insolvent?" "I was never told so before." "Why, was
not your FATHER as poor as a Rat" "I fancy not." "Was not he in the
Kings Bench once?" "I never saw him there." She gave me SUCH a look, and
turned away in a great passion; while I was half delighted with myself
for my impertinence, and half afraid of being thought too saucy. As Lady
Greville was extremely angry with me, she took no further notice of
me all the Evening, and indeed had I been in favour I should have been
equally neglected, as she was got into a Party of great folks and she
never speaks to me when she can to anyone else. Miss Greville was with
her Mother's party at supper, but Ellen preferred staying with the
Bernards and me. We had a very pleasant Dance and as Lady G--slept all
the way home, I had a very comfortable ride.

The next day while we were at dinner Lady Greville's Coach stopped at
the door, for that is the time of day she generally contrives it should.
She sent in a message by the servant to say that "she should not get out
but that Miss Maria must come to the Coach-door, as she wanted to speak
to her, and that she must make haste and come immediately--" "What an
impertinent Message Mama!" said I--"Go Maria--" replied she--Accordingly
I went and was obliged to stand there at her Ladyships pleasure though
the Wind was extremely high and very cold.

"Why I think Miss Maria you are not quite so smart as you were last
night--But I did not come to examine your dress, but to tell you that
you may dine with us the day after tomorrow--Not tomorrow, remember, do
not come tomorrow, for we expect Lord and Lady Clermont and Sir Thomas
Stanley's family--There will be no occasion for your being very fine
for I shant send the Carriage--If it rains you may take an umbrella--"
I could hardly help laughing at hearing her give me leave to keep myself
dry--"And pray remember to be in time, for I shant wait--I hate my
Victuals over-done--But you need not come before the time--How does
your Mother do? She is at dinner is no