y. Count Julien's
performance is very wonderful.

We met only Mrs. Latouche and Miss East, and we are just now engaged to
spend next Sunday evening at Mrs. L.'s, and to meet the D'Entraigues,
but M. le Comte must do without Henry. If he would but speak English, I
would take to him.

Have you ever mentioned the leaving off tea to Mrs. K.? Eliza has just
spoken of it again. The benefit she has found from it in sleeping has
been very great.

I shall write soon to Catherine to fix my day, which will be Thursday.
We have no engagement but for Sunday. Eliza's cold makes quiet
advisable. Her party is mentioned in this morning's paper. I am sorry to
hear of poor Fanny's state. From that quarter, I suppose, is to be the
alloy of her happiness. I will have no more to say.

                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                     J. A.

Give my love particularly to my goddaughter.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.

FOOTNOTE:

[13] "Sense and Sensibility."




XXXVII.


                                                SLOANE ST., Tuesday.

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I had sent off my letter yesterday before yours
came, which I was sorry for; but as Eliza has been so good as to get me
a frank, your questions shall be answered without much further expense
to you.

The best direction to Henry at Oxford will be "The Blue Boar,
Cornmarket."

I do not mean to provide another trimming for my pelisse, for I am
determined to spend no more money; so I shall wear it as it is, longer
than I ought, and then--I do not know.

My head-dress was a bugle-band like the border to my gown, and a flower
of Mrs. Tilson's. I depended upon hearing something of the evening from
Mr. W. K., and am very well satisfied with his notice of me--"A
pleasing-looking young woman"--that must do; one cannot pretend to
anything better now; thankful to have it continued a few years longer!

It gives me sincere pleasure to hear of Mrs. Knight's having had a
tolerable night at last, but upon this occasion I wish she had another
name, for the two _nights_ jingle very much.

We have tried to get "Self-control," but in vain. I should like to know
what her estimate is, but am always half afraid of finding a clever
novel too clever, and of finding my own story and my own people all
forestalled.

Eliza has just received a few lines from Henry to assure her of the good
conduct of his mare. He slept at Uxbridge on Sunday, and wrote from
Wheatfield.

We were not claimed by Hans Place yesterday, but are to dine there
to-day. Mr. Tilson called in the evening, but otherwise we were quite
alone all day; and after having been out a good deal, the change was
very pleasant.

I like your opinion of Miss Atten much better than I expected, and have
now hopes of her staying a whole twelvemonth. By this time I suppose she
is hard at it, governing away. Poor creature! I pity her, though they
are my nieces.

Oh! yes, I remember Miss Emma Plumbtree's local consequence perfectly.

    I am in a dilemma, for want of an Emma,
    Escaped from the lips of Henry Gipps.

But, really, I was never much more put to it than in continuing an
answer to Fanny's former message. What is there to be said on the
subject? Pery pell, or pare pey? or po; or at the most, Pi, pope, pey,
pike, pit.

I congratulate Edward on the Weald of Kent Canal Bill being put off till
another Session, as I have just had the pleasure of reading. There is
always something to be hoped from delay.

    Between Session and Session
    The first Prepossession
    May rouse up the Nation,
    And the villanous Bill
    May be forced to lie still
    Against wicked men's will.

There is poetry for Edward and his daughter. I am afraid I shall not
have any for you.

I forgot to tell you in my last that our cousin Miss Payne called in on
Saturday, and was persuaded to stay dinner. She told us a great deal
about her friend Lady Cath. Brecknell, who is most happily married, and
Mr. Brecknell is very religious, and has got black whiskers.

I am glad to think that Edward has a tolerable day for his drive to
Goodnestone, and very glad to hear of his kind promise of bringing you
to town. I hope everything will arrange itself favorably. The 16th is
now to be Mrs. Dundas's day.

I mean, if I can, to wait for your return before I have my new gown made
up, from a notion of their making up to more advantage together; and as
I find the muslin is not so wide as it used to be, some contrivance may
be necessary. I expect the skirt to require one-half breadth cut in
gores, besides two whole breadths.

Eliza has not yet quite resolved on inviting Anna, but I think she will.

                                        Yours very affectionately,
                                                                JANE.




XXXVIII.


                                           CHAWTON, Wednesday (May 29).

IT was a mistake of mine, my dear Cassandra, to talk of a tenth child at
Hamstall. I had forgot there were but eight already.

Your inquiry after my uncle and aunt were most happily timed, for 