d comfort in the rooms than I had supposed, and the
garden is quite a love. I am in the front attic, which is the bedchamber
to be preferred.

Henry wants you to see it all, and asked whether you would return with
him from Hampshire; I encouraged him to think you would. He breakfasts
here early, and then rides to Henrietta St. If it continues fine, John
is to drive me there by and by, and we shall take an airing together;
and I do not mean to take any other exercise, for I feel a little tired
after my long jumble. I live in his room downstairs; it is particularly
pleasant from opening upon the garden. I go and refresh myself every now
and then, and then come back to solitary coolness. There is one
maidservant only, a very creditable, clean-looking young woman. Richard
remains for the present.

_Wednesday morning._--My brother and Edwd. arrived last night. They
could not get places the day before. Their business is about teeth and
wigs, and they are going after breakfast to Scarman's and Tavistock St.,
and they are to return to go with me afterwards in the barouche. I hope
to do some of my errands to-day.

I got the willow yesterday, as Henry was not quite ready when I reached
Hena. St. I saw Mr. Hampson there for a moment. He dines here to-morrow,
and proposed bringing his son; so I must submit to seeing George
Hampson, though I had hoped to go through life without it. It was one of
my vanities, like your not reading "Patronage."

After leaving H. St. we drove to Mrs. Latouche's; they are always at
home, and they are to dine here on Friday. We could do no more, as it
began to rain.

We dine at half-past four to-day, that our visitors may go to the play,
and Henry and I are to spend the evening with the Tilsons, to meet Miss
Burnett, who leaves town to-morrow. Mrs. T. called on me yesterday.

Is not this all that can have happened or been arranged? Not quite.
Henry wants me to see more of his Hanwell favorite, and has written to
invite her to spend a day or two here with me. His scheme is to fetch
her on Saturday. I am more and more convinced that he will marry again
soon, and like the idea of her better than of anybody else at hand.

Now I have breakfasted and have the room to myself again. It is likely
to be a fine day. How do you all do?

Henry talks of being at Chawton about the 1st of Sept. He has once
mentioned a scheme which I should rather like,--calling on the Birches
and the Crutchleys in our way. It may never come to anything, but I must
provide for the possibility by troubling you to send up my silk pelisse
by Collier on Saturday. I feel it would be necessary on such an
occasion; and be so good as to put up a clean dressing-gown which will
come from the wash on Friday. You need not direct it to be left
anywhere. It may take its chance.

We are to call for Henry between three and four, and I must finish this
and carry it with me, as he is not always there in the morning before
the parcel is made up. And before I set off, I must return Mrs. Tilson's
visit. I hear nothing of the Hoblyns, and abstain from all inquiry.

I hope Mary Jane and Frank's gardens go on well. Give my love to them
all--Nunna Hat's love to George. A great many people wanted to run up in
the Poach as well as me. The wheat looked very well all the way, and
James says the same of _his_ road.

The same good account of Mrs. C.'s health continues, and her
circumstances mend. She gets farther and farther from poverty. What a
comfort! Good-by to you.

                      Yours very truly and affectionately,
                                                        JANE.

All well at Steventon. I hear nothing particular of Ben, except that
Edward is to get him some pencils.

  Miss AUSTEN, Chawton.
    By favor of Mr. GRAY.




LVIII.


MY DEAR ANNA,[31]--I am very much obliged to you for sending your MS. It
has entertained me extremely; indeed all of us. I read it aloud to your
grandmamma and Aunt Cass, and we were all very much pleased. The spirit
does not droop at all. Sir Thos., Lady Helen, and St. Julian are very
well done, and Cecilia continues to be interesting in spite of her being
so amiable. It was very fit you should advance her age. I like the
beginning of Devereux Forester very much, a great deal better than if he
had been very good or very bad. A few verbal corrections are all that I
felt tempted to make; the principal of them is a speech of St. Julian to
Lady Helen, which you see I have presumed to alter. As Lady H. is
Cecilia's superior, it would not be correct to talk of her being
introduced. It is Cecilia who must be introduced. And I do not like a
lover speaking in the 3rd person; it is too much like the part of Lord
Overtley, and I think it not natural. If you think differently, however,
you need not mind me. I am impatient for more, and only wait for a safe
conveyance to return this.

                                      Yours affectionately,
                                                         J. A.

FOOTNOTE:

[31] Miss Anna Austen, at this time engaged to Mr. Lefroy, was writing a
novel which she sent to her aunt for criticis