run will
certainly have the laugh on her side; and don't be frightened by the
idea of his acting more strictly up to the precepts of the New Testament
than others.

And now, my dear Fanny, having written so much on one side of the
question, I shall turn round and entreat you not to commit yourself
farther, and not to think of accepting him unless you really do like
him. Anything is to be preferred or endured rather than marrying
without affection; and if his deficiencies of manner, etc., etc.,
strike you more than all his good qualities, if you continue to think
strongly of them, give him up at once. Things are now in such a state
that you must resolve upon one or the other,--either to allow him to go
on as he has done, or whenever you are together behave with a coldness
which may convince him that he has been deceiving himself. I have no
doubt of his suffering a good deal for a time,--a great deal when he
feels that he must give you up; but it is no creed of mine, as you must
be well aware, that such sort of disappointments kill anybody.

Your sending the music was an admirable device, it made everything easy,
and I do not know how I could have accounted for the parcel otherwise;
for though your dear papa most conscientiously hunted about till he
found me alone in the dining-parlor, your Aunt C. had seen that he had a
parcel to deliver. As it was, however, I do not think anything was
suspected.

We have heard nothing fresh from Anna. I trust she is very comfortable
in her new home. Her letters have been very sensible and satisfactory,
with no parade of happiness, which I liked them the better for. I have
often known young married women write in a way I did not like in that
respect.

You will be glad to hear that the first edition of M. P.[34] is all
sold. Your Uncle Henry is rather wanting me to come to town to settle
about a second edition; but as I could not very conveniently leave home
now, I have written him my will and pleasure and unless he still urges
it, shall not go. I am very greedy and want to make the most of it; but
as you are much above caring about money, I shall not plague you with
any particulars. The pleasures of vanity are more within your
comprehension, and you will enter into mine at receiving the praise
which every now and then comes to me through some channel or other.

_Saturday._--Mr. Palmer spent yesterday with us, and is gone off with
Cassy this morning. We have been expecting Miss Lloyd the last two days,
and feel sure of her to-day. Mr. Knight and Mr. Edwd. Knight are to dine
with us, and on Monday they are to dine with us again, accompanied by
their respectable host and hostess.

_Sunday._--Your papa had given me messages to you; but they are
unnecessary, as he writes by this post to Aunt Louisa. We had a pleasant
party yesterday; at least we found it so. It is delightful to see him so
cheerful and confident. Aunt Cass. and I dine at the Great House to-day.
We shall be a snug half-dozen. Miss Lloyd came, as we expected,
yesterday, and desires her love. She is very happy to hear of your
learning the harp. I do not mean to send you what I owe Miss Hare,
because I think you would rather not be paid beforehand.

                          Yours very affectionately,
                                               JANE AUSTEN.

  Miss KNIGHT,
    Goodnestone Farm, Wingham, Kent.

FOOTNOTE:

[34] "Mansfield Park."




LXIII.


                                               CHAWTON, Nov. 21, 1814.

MY DEAR ANNA,--I met Harriet Benn yesterday. She gave me her
congratulations, and desired they might be forwarded to you, and there
they are. The chief news from this country is the death of old Mrs.
Dormer. Mrs. Clement walks about in a new black velvet pelisse lined
with yellow, and a white bobbin net veil, and looks remarkably well in
them.

I think I understand the country about Hendon from your description. It
must be very pretty in summer. Should you know from the atmosphere that
you were within a dozen miles of London? Make everybody at Hendon admire
"Mansfield Park."

                                    Your affectionate aunt,       J. A.




LXIV.


                                            HANS PLACE, Nov. 28, 1814.

MY DEAR ANNA,--I assure you we all came away very much pleased with our
visit. We talked of you for about a mile and a half with great
satisfaction; and I have been just sending a very good report of you to
Miss Benn, with a full account of your dress for Susan and Maria.

We were all at the play last night to see Miss O'Neil in "Isabella." I
do not think she was quite equal to my expectations. I fancy I want
something more than can be. I took two pocket-handkerchiefs, but had
very little occasion for either. She is an elegant creature, however,
and hugs Mr. Young delightfully. I am going this morning to see the
little girls in Keppel Street. Cassy was excessively interested about
your marriage when she heard of it, which was not until she was to drink
your health on the wedding-day.

She asked a thousand questions in her usual manner, what he said to you
and what you said to him. If y