e of the fixtures of the
house!--but you were never actually erected in it either by Mr. Egerton
Brydges or Mrs. Lloyd. . . .

You are very kind in planning presents for me to make, and my mother has
shown me exactly the same attention; but as I do not choose to have
generosity dictated to me, I shall not resolve on giving my cabinet to
Anna till the first thought of it has been my own.

Sidmouth is now talked of as our summer abode. Get all the information,
therefore, about it that you can from Mrs. C. Cage.

My father's old ministers are already deserting him to pay their court
to his son. The brown mare, which, as well as the black, was to devolve
on James at our removal, has not had patience to wait for that, and has
settled herself even now at Deane. The death of Hugh Capet, which, like
that of Mr. Skipsey, though undesired, was not wholly unexpected, being
purposely effected, has made the immediate possession of the mare very
convenient, and everything else I suppose will be seized by degrees in
the same manner. Martha and I work at the books every day.

                                    Yours affectionately,       J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XX.


                                    STEVENTON, Wednesday (January 14).

POOR Miss Austen! It appears to me that I have rather oppressed you of
late by the frequency of my letters. You had hoped not to hear from me
again before Tuesday, but Sunday showed you with what a merciless sister
you had to deal. I cannot recall the past, but you shall not hear from
me quite so often in future.

Your letter to Mary was duly received before she left Deane with Martha
yesterday morning, and it gives us great pleasure to know that the
Chilham ball was so agreeable, and that you danced four dances with Mr.
Kemble. Desirable, however, as the latter circumstance was, I cannot
help wondering at its taking place. Why did you dance four dances with
so stupid a man? Why not rather dance two of them with some elegant
brother officer who was struck with your appearance as soon as you
entered the room?

Martha left you her best love. She will write to you herself in a short
time; but trusting to my memory rather than her own, she has
nevertheless desired me to ask you to purchase for her two bottles of
Steele's lavender water when you are in town, provided you should go to
the shop on your own account, otherwise you may be sure that she would
not have you recollect the request.

James dined with us yesterday, wrote to Edward in the evening, filled
three sides of paper, every line inclining too much towards the
northeast, and the very first line of all scratched out, and this
morning he joins his lady in the fields of Elysium and Ibthorp.

Last Friday was a very busy day with us. We were visited by Miss Lyford
and Mr. Bayle. The latter began his operations in the house, but had
only time to finish the four sitting-rooms; the rest is deferred till
the spring is more advanced and the days longer. He took his paper of
appraisement away with him, and therefore we only know the estimate he
has made of one or two articles of furniture which my father
particularly inquired into. I understand, however, that he was of
opinion that the whole would amount to more than two hundred pounds, and
it is not imagined that this will comprehend the brewhouse and many
other, etc., etc.

Miss Lyford was very pleasant, and gave my mother such an account of the
houses in Westgate Buildings, where Mrs. Lyford lodged four years ago,
as made her think of a situation there with great pleasure, but your
opposition will be without difficulty decisive, and my father, in
particular, who was very well inclined towards the Row before, has now
ceased to think of it entirely. At present the environs of Laura Place
seem to be his choice. His views on the subject are much advanced since
I came home; he grows quite ambitious, and actually requires now a
comfortable and a creditable-looking house.

On Saturday Miss Lyford went to her long home,--that is to say, it was a
long way off,--and soon afterwards a party of fine ladies issuing from a
well-known commodious green vehicle, their heads full of Bantam cocks
and Galinies, entered the house,--Mrs. Heathcote, Mrs. Harwood, Mrs.
James Austen, Miss Bigg, Miss Jane Blachford.

Hardly a day passes in which we do not have some visitor or other:
yesterday came Mrs. Bramstone, who is very sorry that she is to lose us,
and afterwards Mr. Holder, who was shut up for an hour with my father
and James in a most awful manner. John Bond _est à lui_. . . .




XXI.


                                    STEVENTON, Wednesday (January 21).

EXPECT a most agreeable letter, for not being overburdened with subject
(having nothing at all to say), I shall have no check to my genius from
beginning to end.

Well, and so Prank's letter has made you very happy, but you are afraid
he would not have patience to stay for the "Haarlem," which you wish him
to have done as being safer than the merchantman. Poor fellow! to wait
from the middle of November to the end of December, and p