of finding several scarlet strawberries quite ripe;
had you been at home, this would have been a pleasure lost. There are
more gooseberries and fewer currants than I thought at first. We must
buy currants for our wine.

The Digweeds are gone down to see the Stephen Terrys at Southampton, and
catch the King's birthday at Portsmouth. Miss Papillon called on us
yesterday, looking handsomer than ever. Maria Middleton and Miss Benn
dine here to-morrow.

We are not to enclose any more letters to Abingdon Street, as perhaps
Martha has told you.

I had just left off writing and put on my things for walking to Alton,
when Anna and her friend Harriot called in their way thither; so we went
together. Their business was to provide mourning against the King's
death, and my mother has had a bombazine bought for her. I am not sorry
to be back again, for the young ladies had a great deal to do, and
without much method in doing it.

Anna does not come home till to-morrow morning. She has written I find
to Fanny, but there does not seem to be a great deal to relate of
Tuesday. I had hoped there might be dancing.

Mrs. Budd died on Sunday evening. I saw her two days before her death,
and thought it must happen soon. She suffered much from weakness and
restlessness almost to the last. Poor little Harriot seems truly
grieved. You have never mentioned Harry; how is he?

With love to you all,

                                  Yours affectionately,      J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.

FOOTNOTE:

[14] A large beech wood extending for a long distance upon a hill about
a mile from Chawton: the trees are magnificent.




XL.


                                  CHAWTON, Friday (January 29, 1813).

I HOPE you received my little parcel by J. Bond on Wednesday evening, my
dear Cassandra, and that you will be ready to hear from me again on
Sunday, for I feel that I must write to you to-day. I want to tell you
that I have got my own darling child[15] from London. On Wednesday I
received one copy sent down by Falkener, with three lines from Henry to
say that he had given another to Charles and sent a third by the coach
to Godmersham. . . . The advertisement is in our paper to-day for the first
time: 18_s._ He shall ask 1_l._ 1_s._ for my two next, and 1_l._ 8_s._
for my stupidest of all. Miss B. dined with us on the very day of the
book's coming, and in the evening we fairly set at it, and read half the
first vol. to her, prefacing that, having intelligence from Henry that
such a work would soon appear, we had desired him to send it whenever it
came out, and I believe it passed with her unsuspected. She was amused,
poor soul! _That_ she could not help, you know, with two such people to
lead the way; but she really does seem to admire Elizabeth. I must
confess that I think her as delightful a creature as ever appeared in
print, and how I shall be able to tolerate those who do not like _her_
at least, I do not know. There are a few typical errors; and a "said
he," or a "said she," would sometimes make the dialogue more immediately
clear; but "I do not write for such dull elves" as have not a great deal
of ingenuity themselves. The second volume is shorter than I could wish,
but the difference is not so much in reality as in look, there being a
larger proportion of narrative in that part. I have lop't and crop't so
successfully, however, that I imagine it must be rather shorter than
"Sense and Sensibility" altogether. Now I will try and write of
something else.

FOOTNOTE:

[15] "Pride and Prejudice."




XLI.


                                      CHAWTON, Thursday (February 4).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your letter was truly welcome, and I am much obliged
to you for all your praise; it came at a right time, for I had had some
fits of disgust. Our second evening's reading to Miss B. had not
pleased me so well, but I believe something must be attributed to my
mother's too rapid way of getting on: though she perfectly understands
the characters herself, she cannot speak as they ought. Upon the whole,
however, I am quite vain enough and well satisfied enough. The work is
rather too light and bright and sparkling: it wants shade; it wants to
be stretched out here and there with a long chapter of sense, if it
could be had; if not, of solemn specious nonsense, about something
unconnected with the story,--an essay on writing, a critique on Walter
Scott, or the history of Buonaparte, or something that would form a
contrast, and bring the reader with increased delight to the playfulness
and epigrammatism of the general style. . . . The greatest blunder in
the printing that I have met with is in page 220, v. 3, where two
speeches are made into one. There might as well be no suppers at
Longbourn; but I suppose it was the remains of Mrs. Bennet's old Meryton
habits.




XLII.


                                                            FEBRUARY.

THIS will be a quick return for yours, my dear Cassandra. I doubt its
having much else to recommend it; but there is no saying: it may turn
out to be a very long and delightful letter. I 