ings to amaze and to shock
them: but that they trusted their behaviour would never give me reason
to repent the Watchful Care with which I had presided over their infancy
and formed their Minds--" "With such expectations and such intentions
(cried I) I can have nothing to fear from you--and can chearfully
conduct you to Mrs Cope's without a fear of your being seduced by her
Example, or contaminated by her Follies. Come, then my Children (added
I) the Carriage is driving to the door, and I will not a moment delay
the happiness you are so impatient to enjoy." When we arrived at
Warleigh, poor Augusta could scarcely breathe, while Margaret was all
Life and Rapture. "The long-expected Moment is now arrived (said she)
and we shall soon be in the World."--In a few Moments we were in Mrs
Cope's parlour, where with her daughter she sate ready to receive us.
I observed with delight the impression my Children made on them--. They
were indeed two sweet, elegant-looking Girls, and tho' somewhat abashed
from the peculiarity of their situation, yet there was an ease in their
Manners and address which could not fail of pleasing--. Imagine my
dear Madam how delighted I must have been in beholding as I did, how
attentively they observed every object they saw, how disgusted with some
Things, how enchanted with others, how astonished at all! On the whole
however they returned in raptures with the World, its Inhabitants, and
Manners. Yrs Ever--A. F.




LETTER the SECOND From a YOUNG LADY crossed in Love to her freind

Why should this last disappointment hang so heavily on my spirits? Why
should I feel it more, why should it wound me deeper than those I
have experienced before? Can it be that I have a greater affection for
Willoughby than I had for his amiable predecessors? Or is it that our
feelings become more acute from being often wounded? I must suppose my
dear Belle that this is the Case, since I am not conscious of being more
sincerely attached to Willoughby than I was to Neville, Fitzowen, or
either of the Crawfords, for all of whom I once felt the most lasting
affection that ever warmed a Woman's heart. Tell me then dear Belle why
I still sigh when I think of the faithless Edward, or why I weep when I
behold his Bride, for too surely this is the case--. My Freinds are all
alarmed for me; They fear my declining health; they lament my want
of spirits; they dread the effects of both. In hopes of releiving my
melancholy, by directing my thoughts to other objects, they have invited
several of their freinds to spend the Christmas with us. Lady Bridget
Darkwood and her sister-in-law, Miss Jane are expected on Friday; and
Colonel Seaton's family will be with us next week. This is all most
kindly meant by my Uncle and Cousins; but what can the presence of a
dozen indefferent people do to me, but weary and distress me--. I will
not finish my Letter till some of our Visitors are arrived.

Friday Evening Lady Bridget came this morning, and with her, her sweet
sister Miss Jane--. Although I have been acquainted with this charming
Woman above fifteen Years, yet I never before observed how lovely she
is. She is now about 35, and in spite of sickness, sorrow and Time is
more blooming than I ever saw a Girl of 17. I was delighted with her,
the moment she entered the house, and she appeared equally pleased with
me, attaching herself to me during the remainder of the day. There is
something so sweet, so mild in her Countenance, that she seems more than
Mortal. Her Conversation is as bewitching as her appearance; I could not
help telling her how much she engaged my admiration--. "Oh! Miss Jane
(said I)--and stopped from an inability at the moment of expressing
myself as I could wish--Oh! Miss Jane--(I repeated)--I could not think
of words to suit my feelings--She seemed waiting for my speech--. I
was confused--distressed--my thoughts were bewildered--and I could only
add--"How do you do?" She saw and felt for my Embarrassment and with
admirable presence of mind releived me from it by saying--"My dear
Sophia be not uneasy at having exposed yourself--I will turn the
Conversation without appearing to notice it. "Oh! how I loved her for
her kindness!" Do you ride as much as you used to do?" said she--. "I
am advised to ride by my Physician. We have delightful Rides round us,
I have a Charming horse, am uncommonly fond of the Amusement, replied
I quite recovered from my Confusion, and in short I ride a great deal."
"You are in the right my Love," said she. Then repeating the following
line which was an extempore and equally adapted to recommend both Riding
and Candour--

"Ride where you may, Be Candid where you can," she added," I rode once,
but it is many years ago--She spoke this in so low and tremulous a
Voice, that I was silent--. Struck with her Manner of speaking I could
make no reply. "I have not ridden, continued she fixing her Eyes on my
face, since I was married." I was never so surprised--"Married, Ma'am!"
I repeated. "You may well wear that look of astonishment, said she,
since what I have said must appear improbable to you--Yet nothing is
more tru