word of what service
she wishes for Hannah, or what Hannah can do; but a nursery, I suppose,
or something of that kind, must be the thing.

Having now cleared away my smaller articles of news, I come to a
communication of some weight; no less than that my uncle and aunt[9] are
going to allow James 100_l._ a year. We hear of it through Steventon.
Mary sent us the other day an extract from my aunt's letter on the
subject, in which the donation is made with the greatest kindness, and
intended as a compensation for his loss in the conscientious refusal of
Hampstead living; 100_l._ a year being all that he had at the time
called its worth, as I find it was always intended at Steventon to
divide the real income with Kintbury.

Nothing can be more affectionate than my aunt's language in making the
present, and likewise in expressing her hope of their being much more
together in future than, to her great regret, they have of late years
been. My expectations for my mother do not rise with this event. We will
allow a little more time, however, before we fly out.

If not prevented by parish business, James comes to us on Monday. The
Mrs. Hulberts and Miss Murden are their guests at present, and likely to
continue such till Christmas. Anna comes home on the 19th. The hundred a
year begins next Lady-day.

I am glad you are to have Henry with you again; with him and the boys
you cannot but have a cheerful, and at times even a merry, Christmas.
Martha is so [_MSS. torn_]. . . . We want to be settled at Chawton in time
for Henry to come to us for some shooting in October, at least, or a
little earlier, and Edward may visit us after taking his boys back to
Winchester. Suppose we name the 4th of September. Will not that do?

I have but one thing more to tell you. Mrs. Hill called on my mother
yesterday while we were gone to Chiswell, and in the course of the
visit asked her whether she knew anything of a clergyman's family of the
name of Alford, who had resided in our part of Hampshire. Mrs. Hill had
been applied to as likely to give some information of them on account of
their probable vicinity to Dr. Hill's living by a lady, or for a lady,
who had known Mrs. and the two Miss Alfords in Bath, whither they had
removed it seems from Hampshire, and who now wishes to convey to the
Miss Alfords some work or trimming which she has been doing for them;
but the mother and daughters have left Bath, and the lady cannot learn
where they are gone to. While my mother gave us the account, the
probability of its being ourselves occurred to us, and it had previously
struck herself . . . what makes it more likely, and even indispensably
to be us, is that she mentioned Mr. Hammond as now having the living or
curacy which the father had had. I cannot think who our kind lady can
be, but I dare say we shall not like the work.

Distribute the affectionate love of a heart not so tired as the right
hand belonging to it.

                              Yours ever sincerely,          J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.

FOOTNOTES:

[8] Frank Austen.

[9] Mr. and Mrs. Leigh Perrot.




XXX.


                                CASTLE SQUARE, Tuesday (December 27).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I can now write at leisure and make the most of my
subjects, which is lucky, as they are not numerous this week.

Our house was cleared by half-past eleven on Saturday, and we had the
satisfaction of hearing yesterday that the party reached home in safety
soon after five.

I was very glad of your letter this morning; for, my mother taking
medicine, Eliza keeping her bed with a cold, and Choles not coming, made
us rather dull and dependent on the post. You tell me much that gives me
pleasure, but I think not much to answer. I wish I could help you in
your needlework. I have two hands and a new thimble that lead a very
easy life.

Lady Sondes' match surprises, but does not offend me; had her first
marriage been of affection, or had there been a grown-up single
daughter, I should not have forgiven her; but I consider everybody as
having a right to marry once in their lives for love, if they can, and
provided she will now leave off having bad headaches and being pathetic,
I can allow her, I can wish her, to be happy.

Do not imagine that your picture of your _tête-à-tête_ with Sir B. makes
any change in our expectations here; he could not be really reading,
though he held the newspaper in his hand; he was making up his mind to
the deed, and the manner of it. I think you will have a letter from him
soon.

I heard from Portsmouth yesterday, and as I am to send them more
clothes, they cannot be expecting a very early return to us. Mary's face
is pretty well, but she must have suffered a great deal with it; an
abscess was formed and opened.

Our evening party on Thursday produced nothing more remarkable than Miss
Murden's coming too, though she had declined it absolutely in the
morning, and sitting very ungracious and very silent with us from seven
o'clock till half after eleven, for so late was it, owing to the
chairmen, before we got rid of them.

The