 him a 2d
time, an instinctive sympathy whispered to my Heart, that he was my
Grandfather. Convinced that I could not be mistaken in my conjecture I
instantly sprang from the Carriage I had just entered, and following the
Venerable Stranger into the Room he had been shewn to, I threw myself
on my knees before him and besought him to acknowledge me as his Grand
Child. He started, and having attentively examined my features, raised
me from the Ground and throwing his Grand-fatherly arms around my Neck,
exclaimed, "Acknowledge thee! Yes dear resemblance of my Laurina and
Laurina's Daughter, sweet image of my Claudia and my Claudia's Mother,
I do acknowledge thee as the Daughter of the one and the Grandaughter of
the other." While he was thus tenderly embracing me, Sophia astonished
at my precipitate Departure, entered the Room in search of me. No sooner
had she caught the eye of the venerable Peer, than he exclaimed with
every mark of Astonishment--"Another Grandaughter! Yes, yes, I see you
are the Daughter of my Laurina's eldest Girl; your resemblance to the
beauteous Matilda sufficiently proclaims it. "Oh!" replied Sophia, "when
I first beheld you the instinct of Nature whispered me that we were in
some degree related--But whether Grandfathers, or Grandmothers, I could
not pretend to determine." He folded her in his arms, and whilst they
were tenderly embracing, the Door of the Apartment opened and a most
beautifull young Man appeared. On perceiving him Lord St. Clair started
and retreating back a few paces, with uplifted Hands, said, "Another
Grand-child! What an unexpected Happiness is this! to discover in the
space of 3 minutes, as many of my Descendants! This I am certain is
Philander the son of my Laurina's 3d girl the amiable Bertha; there
wants now but the presence of Gustavus to compleat the Union of my
Laurina's Grand-Children."

"And here he is; (said a Gracefull Youth who that instant entered the
room) here is the Gustavus you desire to see. I am the son of Agatha
your Laurina's 4th and youngest Daughter," "I see you are indeed;
replied Lord St. Clair--But tell me (continued he looking fearfully
towards the Door) tell me, have I any other Grand-children in the
House." "None my Lord." "Then I will provide for you all without farther
delay--Here are 4 Banknotes of 50L each--Take them and remember I
have done the Duty of a Grandfather." He instantly left the Room and
immediately afterwards the House. Adeiu, Laura.




LETTER the 12th LAURA in continuation

You may imagine how greatly we were surprised by the sudden departure
of Lord St Clair. "Ignoble Grand-sire!" exclaimed Sophia. "Unworthy
Grandfather!" said I, and instantly fainted in each other's arms. How
long we remained in this situation I know not; but when we recovered
we found ourselves alone, without either Gustavus, Philander, or the
Banknotes. As we were deploring our unhappy fate, the Door of the
Apartment opened and "Macdonald" was announced. He was Sophia's cousin.
The haste with which he came to our releif so soon after the receipt
of our Note, spoke so greatly in his favour that I hesitated not to
pronounce him at first sight, a tender and simpathetic Freind. Alas!
he little deserved the name--for though he told us that he was much
concerned at our Misfortunes, yet by his own account it appeared that
the perusal of them, had neither drawn from him a single sigh, nor
induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars--. He told
Sophia that his Daughter depended on her returning with him to
Macdonald-Hall, and that as his Cousin's freind he should be happy
to see me there also. To Macdonald-Hall, therefore we went, and were
received with great kindness by Janetta the Daughter of Macdonald, and
the Mistress of the Mansion. Janetta was then only fifteen; naturally
well disposed, endowed with a susceptible Heart, and a simpathetic
Disposition, she might, had these amiable qualities been properly
encouraged, have been an ornament to human Nature; but unfortunately her
Father possessed not a soul sufficiently exalted to admire so promising
a Disposition, and had endeavoured by every means on his power
to prevent it encreasing with her Years. He had actually so far
extinguished the natural noble Sensibility of her Heart, as to prevail
on her to accept an offer from a young Man of his Recommendation. They
were to be married in a few months, and Graham, was in the House when
we arrived. WE soon saw through his character. He was just such a Man as
one might have expected to be the choice of Macdonald. They said he was
Sensible, well-informed, and Agreable; we did not pretend to Judge of
such trifles, but as we were convinced he had no soul, that he had
never read the sorrows of Werter, and that his Hair bore not the least
resemblance to auburn, we were certain that Janetta could feel no
affection for him, or at least that she ought to feel none. The very
circumstance of his being her father's choice too, was so much in his
disfavour, that had he been deserving her, in every other respect yet
THAT of itself ought to have been a sufficient reason in the Eyes