remely glad that you like the poplin. I thought it would have my
mother's approbation, but was not so confident of yours. Remember that
it is a present. Do not refuse me. I am very rich.

Mrs. Clement is very welcome to her little boy, and to my
congratulations into the bargain, if ever you think of giving them. I
hope she will do well. Her sister in Lucina, Mrs. H. Gipps, does too
well, we think. Mary P. wrote on Sunday that she had been three days on
the sofa. Sackree does not approve it.

Well, there is some comfort in the Mrs. Hulbart's not coming to you, and
I am happy to hear of the honey. I was thinking of it the other day. Let
me know when you begin the new tea and the new white wine. My present
elegances have not yet made me indifferent to such matters. I am still a
cat if I see a mouse.

I am glad you like our caps, but Fanny is out of conceit with hers
already; she finds that she has been buying a new cap without having a
new pattern, which is true enough. She is rather out of luck to like
neither her gown nor her cap, but I do not much mind it, because besides
that I like them both myself, I consider it as a thing of course at her
time of life,--one of the sweet taxes of youth to choose in a hurry and
make bad bargains.

I wrote to Charles yesterday, and Fanny has had a letter from him
to-day, principally to make inquiries about the time of their visit
here, to which mine was an answer beforehand; so he will probably write
again soon to fix his week. I am best pleased that Cassy does not go to
you.

Now, what have we been doing since I wrote last? The Mr. K.'s[24] came a
little before dinner on Monday, and Edward went to the church with the
two seniors, but there is no inscription yet drawn up. They are very
good-natured, you know, and civil, and all that, but are not
particularly superfine; however, they ate their dinner and drank their
tea, and went away, leaving their lovely Wadham in our arms, and I wish
you had seen Fanny and me running backwards and forwards with his
breeches from the little chintz to the white room before we went to bed,
in the greatest of frights lest he should come upon us before we had
done it all. There had been a mistake in the housemaid's preparation,
and they were gone to bed.

He seems a very harmless sort of young man, nothing to like or dislike
in him,--goes out shooting or hunting with the two others all the
morning, and plays at whist and makes queer faces in the evening. . . .

FOOTNOTE:

[24] Knatchbulls.




XLVIII.


                                  GODMERSHAM PARK, Monday (Oct. 11).

[MY DEAREST AUNT CASS.,--I have just asked Aunt Jane to let me write a
little in her letter, but she does not like it, so I won't. Good-by!]

You will have Edward's letter to-morrow. He tells me that he did not
send you any news to interfere with mine, but I do not think there is
much for anybody to send at present.

We had our dinner-party on Wednesday, with the addition of Mrs. and Miss
Milles, who were under a promise of dining here in their return from
Eastwell, whenever they paid their visit of duty there, and it happened
to be paid on that day. Both mother and daughter are much as I have
always found them. I like the mother--first, because she reminds me of
Mrs. Birch; and, secondly, because she is cheerful and grateful for what
she is at the age of ninety and upwards. The day was pleasant enough. I
sat by Mr. Chisholme, and we talked away at a great rate about nothing
worth hearing.

It was a mistake as to the day of the Sherers going being fixed; they
are ready, but are waiting for Mr. Paget's answer.

I inquired of Mrs. Milles after Jemima Brydges, and was quite grieved to
hear that she was obliged to leave Canterbury some months ago on account
of her debts, and is nobody knows where. What an unprosperous family!

On Saturday, soon after breakfast, Mr. J. P. left us for Norton Court. I
like him very much. He gives me the idea of a very amiable young man,
only too diffident to be so agreeable as he might be. He was out the
chief of each morning with the other two, shooting and getting wet
through. To-morrow we are to know whether he and a hundred young ladies
will come here for the ball. I do not much expect any.

The Deedes cannot meet us; they have engagements at home. I will finish
the Deedes by saying that they are not likely to come here till quite
late in my stay,--the very last week perhaps; and I do not expect to see
the Moores at all. They are not solicited till after Edward's return
from Hampshire.

Monday, November 15, is the day now fixed for our setting out.

Poor Basingstoke races! There seem to have been two particularly
wretched days on purpose for them; and Weyhill week does not begin much
happier.

We were quite surprised by a letter from Anna at Tollard Royal, last
Saturday; but perfectly approve her going, and only regret they should
all go so far to stay so few days.

We had thunder and lightning here on Thursday morning, between five and
seven; no very bad thunder, but a great deal of lightning. It has given
the commencement of a season of wind and rain, and perh