ry well entertained by bits and
scraps. I had long wanted to see Dr. Breton, and his wife amuses me very
much with her affected refinement and elegance. Miss Lee I found very
conversable; she admires Crabbe as she ought. She is at an age of
reason, ten years older than myself at least. She was at the famous ball
at Chilham Castle, so of course you remember her.

By the by, as I must leave off being young, I find many _douceurs_ in
being a sort of _chaperon_, for I am put on the sofa near the fire, and
can drink as much wine as I like. We had music in the evening: Fanny and
Miss Wildman played, and Mr. James Wildman sat close by and listened, or
pretended to listen.

Yesterday was a day of dissipation all through: first came Sir Brook to
dissipate us before breakfast; then there was a call from Mr. Sherer,
then a regular morning visit from Lady Honeywood in her way home from
Eastwell; then Sir Brook and Edward set off; then we dined (five in
number) at half-past four; then we had coffee; and at six Miss Clewes,
Fanny, and I drove away. We had a beautiful night for our frisks. We
were earlier than we need have been, but after a time Lady B. and her
two companions appeared,--we had kept places for them; and there we sat,
all six in a row, under a side wall, I between Lucy Foote and Miss
Clewes.

Lady B. was much what I expected; I could not determine whether she was
rather handsome or very plain. I liked her for being in a hurry to have
the concert over and get away, and for getting away at last with a great
deal of decision and promptness, not waiting to compliment and dawdle
and fuss about seeing dear Fanny, who was half the evening in another
part of the room with her friends the Plumptres. I am growing too
minute, so I will go to breakfast.

When the concert was over, Mrs. Harrison and I found each other out, and
had a very comfortable little complimentary friendly chat. She is a
sweet woman,--still quite a sweet woman in herself, and so like her
sister! I could almost have thought I was speaking to Mrs. Lefroy. She
introduced me to her daughter, whom I think pretty, but most dutifully
inferior to _la Mère Beauté_. The Faggs and the Hammonds were
there,--Wm. Hammond the only young man of renown. Miss looked very
handsome, but I prefer her little smiling flirting sister Julia.

I was just introduced at last to Mary Plumptre, but I should hardly know
her again. She was delighted with me, however, good enthusiastic soul!
And Lady B. found me handsomer than she expected, so you see I am not so
very bad as you might think for.

It was twelve before we reached home. We were all dog-tired, but pretty
well to-day: Miss Clewes says she has not caught cold, and Fanny's does
not seem worse. I was so tired that I began to wonder how I should get
through the ball next Thursday; but there will be so much more variety
then in walking about, and probably so much less heat, that perhaps I
may not feel it more. My china crape is still kept for the ball. Enough
of the concert.

I had a letter from Mary yesterday. They travelled down to Cheltenham
last Monday very safely, and are certainly to be there a month. Bath is
still Bath. The H. Bridges must quit them early next week, and Louisa
seems not quite to despair of their all moving together, but to those
who see at a distance there appears no chance of it. Dr. Parry does not
want to keep Lady B. at Bath when she can once move. That is lucky. You
will see poor Mr. Evelyn's death.

Since I wrote last, my 2nd edit. has stared me in the face. Mary tells
me that Eliza means to buy it. I wish she may. It can hardly depend upon
any more Fyfield Estates. I cannot help hoping that many will feel
themselves obliged to buy it. I shall not mind imagining it a
disagreeable duty to them, so as they do it. Mary heard before she left
home that it was very much admired at Cheltenham, and that it was given
to Miss Hamilton. It is pleasant to have such a respectable writer
named. I cannot tire you, I am sure, on this subject, or I would
apologize.

What weather, and what news! We have enough to do to admire them both. I
hope you derive your full share of enjoyment from each.

I have extended my lights and increased my acquaintance a good deal
within these two days. Lady Honeywood you know; I did not sit near
enough to be a perfect judge, but I thought her extremely pretty, and
her manners have all the recommendations of ease and good-humor and
unaffectedness; and going about with four horses and nicely dressed
herself, she is altogether a perfect sort of woman.

Oh, and I saw Mr. Gipps last night,--the useful Mr. Gipps, whose
attentions came in as acceptably to us in handing us to the carriage,
for want of a better man, as they did to Emma Plumptre. I thought him
rather a good-looking little man.

I long for your letter to-morrow, particularly that I may know my fate
as to London. My first wish is that Henry should really choose what he
likes best; I shall certainly not be sorry if he does not want me.
Morning church to-morrow; I shall come back with impatient feelings.

The Sherers are gone, but the Pagets are