t on the balcony and then as far as the greenhouse. He
caught no cold, and therefore has done more to-day, with great delight
and self-persuasion of improvement.

He has been to see Mrs. Tilson and the Malings. By the by, you may talk
to Mr. T. of his wife's being better; I saw her yesterday, and was
sensible of her having gained ground in the last two days.

_Evening._--We have had no Edward. Our circle is formed,--only Mr.
Tilson and Mr. Haden. We are not so happy as we were. A message came
this afternoon from Mrs. Latouche and Miss East, offering themselves to
drink tea with us to-morrow, and, as it was accepted, here is an end of
our extreme felicity in our dinner guest. I am heartily sorry they are
coming; it will be an evening spoilt to Fanny and me.

Another little disappointment: Mr. H. advises Henry's not venturing with
us in the carriage to-morrow; if it were spring, he says, it would be a
different thing. One would rather this had not been. He seems to think
his going out to-day rather imprudent, though acknowledging at the same
time that he is better than he was in the morning.

Fanny has had a letter full of commissions from Goodnestone; we shall be
busy about them and her own matters, I dare say, from twelve to four.
Nothing, I trust, will keep us from Keppel Street.

This day has brought a most friendly letter from Mr. Fowle, with a brace
of pheasants. I did not know before that Henry had written to him a few
days ago to ask for them. We shall live upon pheasants,--no bad life!

I send you five one-pound notes, for fear you should be distressed for
little money. Lizzy's work is charmingly done; shall you put it to your
chintz? A sheet came in this moment; 1st and 3rd vols. are now at 144;
2nd at 48. I am sure you will like particulars. We are not to have the
trouble of returning the sheets to Mr. Murray any longer; the printer's
boys bring and carry.

I hope Mary continues to get well fast, and I send my love to little
Herbert. You will tell me more of Martha's plans, of course, when you
write again. Remember me most kindly to everybody, and Miss Benn
besides.

                            Yours very affectionately,
                                                   J. AUSTEN.

I have been listening to dreadful insanity. It is Mr. Haden's firm
belief that a person not musical is fit for every sort of wickedness. I
ventured to assert a little on the other side, but wished the cause in
abler hands.

  Miss AUSTEN, Chawton.




LXX.


                                           HANS PLACE, Sunday (Nov. 26).

MY DEAREST,--The parcel arrived safely, and I am much obliged to you for
your trouble. It cost 2_s._ 10_d._, but as there is a certain saving of
2_s._ 4½_d._ on the other side, I am sure it is well worth doing. I send
four pair of silk stockings, but I do not want them washed at present.
In the three neckhandkerchiefs I include the one sent down before. These
things, perhaps, Edwd. may be able to bring, but even if he is not, I am
extremely pleased with his returning to you from Steventon. It is much
better, far preferable.

I did mention the P. R. in my note to Mr. Murray; it brought me a fine
compliment in return. Whether it has done any other good I do not know,
but Henry thought it worth trying.

The printers continue to supply me very well. I am advanced in Vol. III.
to my _arra_-root, upon which peculiar style of spelling there is a
modest query in the margin. I will not forget Anna's arrowroot. I hope
you have told Martha of my first resolution of letting nobody know that
I might dedicate, etc., for fear of being obliged to do it, and that she
is thoroughly convinced of my being influenced now by nothing but the
most mercenary motives. I have paid nine shillings on her account to
Miss Palmer; there was no more owing.

Well, we were very busy all yesterday; from half-past eleven till four
in the streets, working almost entirely for other people, driving from
place to place after a parcel for Sandling, which we could never find,
and encountering the miseries of Grafton House to get a purple frock for
Eleanor Bridges. We got to Keppel St., however, which was all I cared
for; and though we could stay only a quarter of an hour, Fanny's calling
gave great pleasure, and her sensibility still greater, for she was very
much affected at the sight of the children. Poor little F. looked
heavy. We saw the whole party.

Aunt Harriet hopes Cassy will not forget to make a pincushion for Mrs.
Kelly, as she has spoken of its being promised her several times. I hope
we shall see Aunt H. and the dear little girls here on Thursday.

So much for the morning. Then came the dinner and Mr. Haden, who brought
good manners and clever conversation. From seven to eight the harp; at
eight Mrs. L. and Miss E. arrived, and for the rest of the evening the
drawing-room was thus arranged: on the sofa side the two ladies, Henry,
and myself making the best of it; on the opposite side Fanny and Mr.
Haden, in two chairs (I believe, at least, they had two chairs), talking
together uninterruptedly. Fancy the scene! And what is to be fancied
nex