n; and last night an accidental
meeting and a sudden impulse produced Miss Benn and Maria Middleton at
our tea-table.

If you have not heard it is very fit you should, that Mr. Harrison has
had the living of Fareham given him by the Bishop, and is going to
reside there; and now it is said that Mr. Peach (beautiful wiseacre)
wants to have the curacy of Overton, and if he does leave Wootton, James
Digweed wishes to go there. Fare you well.

                              Yours affectionately,      JANE AUSTEN.

The chimneys at the Great House are done. Mr. Prowting has opened a
gravel-pit, very conveniently for my mother, just at the mouth of the
approach to his house; but it looks a little as if he meant to catch all
his company. Tolerable gravel.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXXIX.


                                           CHAWTON, Thursday (June 6).

BY this time, my dearest Cassandra, you know Martha's plans. I was
rather disappointed, I confess, to find that she could not leave town
till after ye 24th, as I had hoped to see you here the week before. The
delay, however, is not great, and everything seems generally arranging
itself for your return very comfortably.

I found Henry perfectly predisposed to bring you to London if agreeable
to yourself; he has not fixed his day for going into Kent, but he must
be back again before ye 20th. You may therefore think with something
like certainty of the close of your Godmersham visit, and will have, I
suppose, about a week for Sloane Street. He travels in his gig, and
should the weather be tolerable I think you must have a delightful
journey.

I have given up all idea of Miss Sharpe's travelling with you and
Martha, for though you are both all compliance with my scheme, yet as
you knock off a week from the end of her visit, and Martha rather more
from the beginning, the thing is out of the question.

I have written to her to say that after the middle of July we shall be
happy to receive her, and I have added a welcome if she could make her
way hither directly, but I do not expect that she will. I have also sent
our invitation to Cowes.

We are very sorry for the disappointment you have all had in Lady B.'s
illness; but a division of the proposed party is with you by this time,
and I hope may have brought you a better account of the rest.

Give my love and thanks to Harriot, who has written me charming things
of your looks, and diverted me very much by poor Mrs. C. Milles's
continued perplexity.

I had a few lines from Henry on Tuesday to prepare us for himself and
his friend, and by the time that I had made the sumptuous provision of a
neck of mutton on the occasion, they drove into the court; but lest you
should not immediately recollect in how many hours a neck of mutton may
be certainly procured, I add that they came a little after twelve,--both
tall and well, and in their different degrees agreeable.

It was a visit of only twenty-four hours, but very pleasant while it
lasted. Mr. Tilson took a sketch of the Great House before dinner, and
after dinner we all three walked to Chawton Park,[14] meaning to go into
it, but it was too dirty, and we were obliged to keep on the outside.
Mr. Tilson admired the trees very much, but grieved that they should not
be turned into money.

My mother's cold is better, and I believe she only wants dry weather to
be very well. It was a great distress to her that Anna should be absent
during her uncle's visit, a distress which I could not share. She does
not return from Faringdon till this evening, and I doubt not has had
plenty of the miscellaneous, unsettled sort of happiness which seems to
suit her best. We hear from Miss Benn, who was on the Common with the
Prowtings, that she was very much admired by the gentlemen in general.

I like your new bonnets exceedingly; yours is a shape which always looks
well, and I think Fanny's particularly becoming to her.

On Monday I had the pleasure of receiving, unpacking, and approving our
Wedgwood ware. It all came very safely, and upon the whole is a good
match, though I think they might have allowed us rather larger leaves,
especially in such a year of fine foliage as this. One is apt to suppose
that the woods about Birmingham must be blighted. There was no bill with
the goods, but that shall not screen them from being paid. I mean to ask
Martha to settle the account. It will be quite in her way, for she is
just now sending my mother a breakfast-set from the same place.

I hope it will come by the wagon to-morrow; it is certainly what we
want, and I long to know what it is like, and as I am sure Martha has
great pleasure in making the present, I will not have any regret. We
have considerable dealings with the wagons at present: a hamper of port
and brandy from Southampton is now in the kitchen.

Your answer about the Miss Plumbtrees proves you as fine a Daniel as
ever Portia was; for I maintained Emma to be the eldest.

We began pease on Sunday, but our gatherings are very small, not at all
like the gathering in the "Lady of the Lake." Yesterday I had the
agreeable surprise 