by Day, in order to get the Wedding dinner
ready by the time appointed, after having roasted Beef, Broiled Mutton,
and Stewed Soup enough to last the new-married Couple through the
Honey-moon, I had the mortification of finding that I had been Roasting,
Broiling and Stewing both the Meat and Myself to no purpose. Indeed my
dear Freind, I never remember suffering any vexation equal to what I
experienced on last Monday when my sister came running to me in the
store-room with her face as White as a Whipt syllabub, and told me that
Hervey had been thrown from his Horse, had fractured his Scull and was
pronounced by his surgeon to be in the most emminent Danger. "Good God!
(said I) you dont say so? Why what in the name of Heaven will become
of all the Victuals! We shall never be able to eat it while it is good.
However, we'll call in the Surgeon to help us. I shall be able to manage
the Sir-loin myself, my Mother will eat the soup, and You and the Doctor
must finish the rest." Here I was interrupted, by seeing my poor Sister
fall down to appearance Lifeless upon one of the Chests, where we keep
our Table linen. I immediately called my Mother and the Maids, and at
last we brought her to herself again; as soon as ever she was sensible,
she expressed a determination of going instantly to Henry, and was so
wildly bent on this Scheme, that we had the greatest Difficulty in the
World to prevent her putting it in execution; at last however more by
Force than Entreaty we prevailed on her to go into her room; we laid
her upon the Bed, and she continued for some Hours in the most dreadful
Convulsions. My Mother and I continued in the room with her, and when
any intervals of tolerable Composure in Eloisa would allow us, we joined
in heartfelt lamentations on the dreadful Waste in our provisions which
this Event must occasion, and in concerting some plan for getting rid of
them. We agreed that the best thing we could do was to begin eating them
immediately, and accordingly we ordered up the cold Ham and Fowls, and
instantly began our Devouring Plan on them with great Alacrity. We would
have persuaded Eloisa to have taken a Wing of a Chicken, but she would
not be persuaded. She was however much quieter than she had been;
the convulsions she had before suffered having given way to an almost
perfect Insensibility. We endeavoured to rouse her by every means in our
power, but to no purpose. I talked to her of Henry. "Dear Eloisa (said
I) there's no occasion for your crying so much about such a trifle. (for
I was willing to make light of it in order to comfort her) I beg you
would not mind it--You see it does not vex me in the least; though
perhaps I may suffer most from it after all; for I shall not only be
obliged to eat up all the Victuals I have dressed already, but must if
Henry should recover (which however is not very likely) dress as much
for you again; or should he die (as I suppose he will) I shall still
have to prepare a Dinner for you whenever you marry any one else. So
you see that tho' perhaps for the present it may afflict you to think
of Henry's sufferings, Yet I dare say he'll die soon, and then his pain
will be over and you will be easy, whereas my Trouble will last much
longer for work as hard as I may, I am certain that the pantry cannot be
cleared in less than a fortnight." Thus I did all in my power to console
her, but without any effect, and at last as I saw that she did not seem
to listen to me, I said no more, but leaving her with my Mother I took
down the remains of The Ham and Chicken, and sent William to ask how
Henry did. He was not expected to live many Hours; he died the same day.
We took all possible care to break the melancholy Event to Eloisa in the
tenderest manner; yet in spite of every precaution, her sufferings on
hearing it were too violent for her reason, and she continued for many
hours in a high Delirium. She is still extremely ill, and her Physicians
are greatly afraid of her going into a Decline. We are therefore
preparing for Bristol, where we mean to be in the course of the next
week. And now my dear Margaret let me talk a little of your affairs; and
in the first place I must inform you that it is confidently reported,
your Father is going to be married; I am very unwilling to beleive so
unpleasing a report, and at the same time cannot wholly discredit it. I
have written to my freind Susan Fitzgerald, for information concerning
it, which as she is at present in Town, she will be very able to give
me. I know not who is the Lady. I think your Brother is extremely
right in the resolution he has taken of travelling, as it will perhaps
contribute to obliterate from his remembrance, those disagreable Events,
which have lately so much afflicted him--I am happy to find that
tho' secluded from all the World, neither you nor Matilda are dull or
unhappy--that you may never know what it is to, be either is the wish of
your sincerely affectionate C.L.

P. S. I have this instant received an answer from my freind Susan, which
I enclose to you, and on which you will make your own reflections.

The enclosed LETTER

My 