ch we walked into before dinner, the views were
beautiful. I cannot say what we did _not_ see, but I should think there
could not be a wood, or a meadow, or palace, or remarkable spot in
England that was not spread out before us on one side or other.
Claremont is going to be sold: a Mr. Ellis has it now. It is a house
that seems never to have prospered. After dinner we walked forward to be
overtaken at the coachman's time, and before he did overtake us we were
very near Kingston. I fancy it was about half-past six when we reached
this house,--a twelve hours' business, and the horses did not appear
more than reasonably tired. I was very tired too, and glad to get to bed
early, but am quite well to-day. I am very snug in the front
drawing-room all to myself, and would not say "thank you" for any
company but you. The quietness of it does me good. I have contrived to
pay my two visits, though the weather made me a great while about it,
and left me only a few minutes to sit with Charlotte Craven.[17] She
looks very well, and her hair is done up with an elegance to do credit
to any education. Her manners are as unaffected and pleasing as ever.
She had heard from her mother to-day. Mrs. Craven spends another
fortnight at Chilton. I saw nobody but Charlotte, which pleased me best.
I was shown upstairs into a drawing-room, where she came to me; and the
appearance of the room, so totally unschoollike, amused me very much: it
was full of modern elegances.

                                  Yours very affec^{tly},
                                                      J. A.

FOOTNOTE:

[17] The present Lady Pollen, of Redenham, near Andover, then at a
school in London.




XLIV.


                                      SLOANE STREET, Monday (May 24).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I am very much obliged to you for writing to me.
You must have hated it after a worrying morning. Your letter came just
in time to save my going to Remnant's, and fit me for Christian's, where
I bought Fanny's dimity.

I went the day before (Friday) to Layton's as I proposed, and got my
mother's gown,--seven yards at 6_s._ 6_d._ I then walked into No. 10,
which is all dirt and confusion, but in a very promising way; and after
being present at the opening of a new account, to my great amusement,
Henry and I went to the exhibition in Spring Gardens. It is not thought
a good collection, but I was very well pleased, particularly (pray tell
Fanny) with a small portrait of Mrs. Bingley,[1] excessively like her.

I went in hopes of seeing one of her sister, but there was no Mrs.
Darcy.[18] Perhaps, however, I may find her in the great exhibition,
which we shall go to if we have time. I have no chance of her in the
collection of Sir Joshua Reynolds's paintings, which is now showing in
Pall Mall, and which we are also to visit.

Mrs. Bingley's is exactly herself,--size, shaped face, features, and
sweetness; there never was a greater likeness. She is dressed in a white
gown, with green ornaments, which convinces me of what I had always
supposed, that green was a favorite color with her. I dare say Mrs. D.
will be in yellow.

Friday was our worst day as to weather. We were out in a very long and
very heavy storm of hail, and there had been others before, but I heard
no thunder. Saturday was a good deal better; dry and cold.

I gave 2_s._ 6_d._ for the dimity. I do not boast of any bargains, but
think both the sarsenet and dimity good of their sort.

I have bought your locket, but was obliged to give 18_s._ for it, which
must be rather more than you intended. It is neat and plain, set in
gold.

We were to have gone to the Somerset House Exhibition on Saturday, but
when I reached Henrietta Street Mr. Hampson was wanted there, and Mr.
Tilson and I were obliged to drive about town after him, and by the time
we had done it was too late for anything but home. We never found him
after all.

I have been interrupted by Mrs. Tilson. Poor woman! She is in danger of
not being able to attend Lady Drummond Smith's party to-night. Miss
Burdett was to have taken her, and now Miss Burdett has a cough and
will not go. My cousin Caroline is her sole dependence.

The events of yesterday were, our going to Belgrave Chapel in the
morning, our being prevented by the rain from going to evening service
at St. James, Mr. Hampson's calling, Messrs. Barlow and Phillips dining
here, and Mr. and Mrs. Tilson's coming in the evening _à l'ordinaire_.
She drank tea with us both Thursday and Saturday; he dined out each day,
and on Friday we were with them, and they wish us to go to them
to-morrow evening, to meet Miss Burdett, but I do not know how it will
end. Henry talks of a drive to Hampstead, which may interfere with it.

I should like to see Miss Burdett very well, but that I am rather
frightened by hearing that she wishes to be introduced to me. If I am a
wild beast, I cannot help it. It is not my own fault.

There is no change in our plan of leaving London, but we shall not be
with you before Tuesday. Henry thinks Monday would appear too early a
day. There is no danger of our being induced to stay longer.
