erhaps even
longer, it must be sad work; especially in a place where the ink is so
abominably pale. What a surprise to him it must have been on October 20,
to be visited, collared, and thrust out of the "Petterel" by Captain
Inglis. He kindly passes over the poignancy of his feelings in quitting
his ship, his officers, and his men.

What a pity it is that he should not be in England at the time of this
promotion, because he certainly would have had an appointment, so
everybody says, and therefore it must be right for me to say it too. Had
he been really here, the certainty of the appointment, I dare say, would
not have been half so great, but as it could not be brought to the
proof, his absence will be always a lucky source of regret.

Eliza talks of having read in a newspaper that all the first lieutenants
of the frigates whose captains were to be sent into line-of-battle ships
were to be promoted to the rank of commanders. If it be true, Mr.
Valentine may afford himself a fine Valentine's knot, and Charles may
perhaps become first of the "Endymion," though I suppose Captain Durham
is too likely to bring a villain with him under that denomination. . . .

The neighborhood have quite recovered the death of Mrs. Rider,--so much
so, that I think they are rather rejoiced at it now; her things were so
very dear! and Mrs. Rogers is to be all that is desirable. Not even
death itself can fix the friendship of the world. . . .

The Wylmots being robbed must be an amusing thing to their acquaintance,
and I hope it is as much their pleasure as it seems their avocation to
be subjects of general entertainment.

I have a great mind not to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, which
I have just had the pleasure of reading, because I am so ashamed to
compare the sprawling lines of this with it. But if I say all that I
have to say, I hope I have no reason to hang myself. . . .

Why did not J. D. make his proposals to you? I suppose he went to see
the cathedral, that he might know how he should like to be married in
it. . . .

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXII.


                               SOUTHAMPTON, Wednesday (January 7, 1807).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--You were mistaken in supposing I should expect your
letter on Sunday; I had no idea of hearing from you before Tuesday, and
my pleasure yesterday was therefore unhurt by any previous
disappointment. I thank you for writing so much; you must really have
sent me the value of two letters in one. We are extremely glad to hear
that Elizabeth is so much better, and hope you will be sensible of still
further amendment in her when you return from Canterbury.

Of your visit there I must now speak "incessantly;" it surprises, but
pleases me more, and I consider it as a very just and honorable
distinction of you, and not less to the credit of Mrs. Knight. I have no
doubt of your spending your time with her most pleasantly in quiet and
rational conversation, and am so far from thinking her expectations of
you will be deceived, that my only fear is of your being so agreeable,
so much to her taste, as to make her wish to keep you with her forever.
If that should be the case, we must remove to Canterbury, which I should
not like so well as Southampton.

When you receive this, our guests will be all gone or going; and I shall
be left to the comfortable disposal of my time, to ease of mind from the
torments of rice puddings and apple dumplings, and probably to regret
that I did not take more pains to please them all.

Mrs. J. Austen has asked me to return with her to Steventon; I need not
give my answer; and she has invited my mother to spend there the time of
Mrs. F. A.'s confinement, which she seems half inclined to do.

A few days ago I had a letter from Miss Irvine, and as I was in her
debt, you will guess it to be a remonstrance, not a very severe one,
however; the first page is in her usual retrospective, jealous,
inconsistent style, but the remainder is chatty and harmless. She
supposes my silence may have proceeded from resentment of her not having
written to inquire particularly after my hooping-cough, etc. She is a
funny one.

I have answered her letter, and have endeavored to give something like
the truth with as little incivility as I could, by placing my silence to
the want of subject in the very quiet way in which we live. Phebe has
repented, and stays. I have also written to Charles, and I answered Miss
Buller's letter by return of post, as I intended to tell you in my last.

Two or three things I recollected when it was too late, that I might
have told you; one is that the Welbys have lost their eldest son by a
putrid fever at Eton, and another that Tom Chute is going to settle in
Norfolk.

You have scarcely ever mentioned Lizzy since your being at Godmersham. I
hope it is not because she is altered for the worse.

I cannot yet satisfy Fanny as to Mrs. Foote's baby's name, and I must
not encourage her to expect a good one, as Captain Foote is a professed
adversary to all but the plainest; he likes only Mary, Elizabeth, Anne,
etc. Our best chance is of "Caroline,"