he) that I should suppose the faults of
one, would be the faults of both."

"Well, then, in the first place; they are both so horribly tall!"

"They are TALLER than you are indeed." (said he with a saucy smile.)

"Nay, (said I), I know nothing of that."

"Well, but (he continued) tho' they may be above the common size, their
figures are perfectly elegant; and as to their faces, their Eyes are
beautifull."

"I never can think such tremendous, knock-me-down figures in the least
degree elegant, and as for their eyes, they are so tall that I never
could strain my neck enough to look at them."

"Nay, (replied he) I know not whether you may not be in the right in not
attempting it, for perhaps they might dazzle you with their Lustre."

"Oh! Certainly. (said I, with the greatest complacency, for I assure
you my dearest Charlotte I was not in the least offended tho' by what
followed, one would suppose that William was conscious of having given
me just cause to be so, for coming up to me and taking my hand, he said)
"You must not look so grave Susan; you will make me fear I have offended
you!"

"Offended me! Dear Brother, how came such a thought in your head!
(returned I) No really! I assure you that I am not in the least
surprised at your being so warm an advocate for the Beauty of these
girls."--

"Well, but (interrupted William) remember that we have not yet
concluded our dispute concerning them. What fault do you find with their
complexion?"

"They are so horridly pale."

"They have always a little colour, and after any exercise it is
considerably heightened."

"Yes, but if there should ever happen to be any rain in this part of
the world, they will never be able raise more than their common
stock--except indeed they amuse themselves with running up and Down
these horrid old galleries and Antichambers."

"Well, (replied my Brother in a tone of vexation, and glancing an
impertinent look at me) if they HAVE but little colour, at least, it is
all their own."

This was too much my dear Charlotte, for I am certain that he had the
impudence by that look, of pretending to suspect the reality of mine.
But you I am sure will vindicate my character whenever you may hear
it so cruelly aspersed, for you can witness how often I have protested
against wearing Rouge, and how much I always told you I disliked it. And
I assure you that my opinions are still the same.--. Well, not bearing
to be so suspected by my Brother, I left the room immediately, and have
been ever since in my own Dressing-room writing to you. What a long
letter have I made of it! But you must not expect to receive such from
me when I get to Town; for it is only at Lesley castle, that one has
time to write even to a Charlotte Lutterell.--. I was so much vexed by
William's glance, that I could not summon Patience enough, to stay and
give him that advice respecting his attachment to Matilda which had
first induced me from pure Love to him to begin the conversation; and
I am now so thoroughly convinced by it, of his violent passion for her,
that I am certain he would never hear reason on the subject, and I
shall there fore give myself no more trouble either about him or his
favourite. Adeiu my dear girl--Yrs affectionately Susan L.




LETTER the SEVENTH From Miss C. LUTTERELL to Miss M. LESLEY Bristol the
27th of March

I have received Letters from you and your Mother-in-law within this week
which have greatly entertained me, as I find by them that you are both
downright jealous of each others Beauty. It is very odd that two pretty
Women tho' actually Mother and Daughter cannot be in the same House
without falling out about their faces. Do be convinced that you are both
perfectly handsome and say no more of the Matter. I suppose this letter
must be directed to Portman Square where probably (great as is your
affection for Lesley Castle) you will not be sorry to find yourself. In
spite of all that people may say about Green fields and the Country
I was always of opinion that London and its amusements must be very
agreable for a while, and should be very happy could my Mother's income
allow her to jockey us into its Public-places, during Winter. I always
longed particularly to go to Vaux-hall, to see whether the cold Beef
there is cut so thin as it is reported, for I have a sly suspicion that
few people understand the art of cutting a slice of cold Beef so well
as I do: nay it would be hard if I did not know something of the Matter,
for it was a part of my Education that I took by far the most pains
with. Mama always found me HER best scholar, tho' when Papa was
alive Eloisa was HIS. Never to be sure were there two more different
Dispositions in the World. We both loved Reading. SHE preferred
Histories, and I Receipts. She loved drawing, Pictures, and I drawing
Pullets. No one could sing a better song than she, and no one make a
better Pye than I.--And so it has always continued since we have been
no longer children. The only difference is that all disputes on the
superior excellence of our Employments THEN so frequent are now no more.
We have for many years entered into an agreeme