ndeavoured
to reproach Sophia with ignobly defrauding him of his money... The
dignity of Sophia was wounded; "Wretch (exclaimed she, hastily replacing
the Bank-note in the Drawer) how darest thou to accuse me of an Act,
of which the bare idea makes me blush?" The base wretch was still
unconvinced and continued to upbraid the justly-offended Sophia in such
opprobious Language, that at length he so greatly provoked the gentle
sweetness of her Nature, as to induce her to revenge herself on him by
informing him of Janetta's Elopement, and of the active Part we had
both taken in the affair. At this period of their Quarrel I entered the
Library and was as you may imagine equally offended as Sophia at the
ill-grounded accusations of the malevolent and contemptible Macdonald.
"Base Miscreant! (cried I) how canst thou thus undauntedly endeavour to
sully the spotless reputation of such bright Excellence? Why dost thou
not suspect MY innocence as soon?" "Be satisfied Madam (replied he) I
DO suspect it, and therefore must desire that you will both leave this
House in less than half an hour."

"We shall go willingly; (answered Sophia) our hearts have long detested
thee, and nothing but our freindship for thy Daughter could have induced
us to remain so long beneath thy roof."

"Your Freindship for my Daughter has indeed been most powerfully exerted
by throwing her into the arms of an unprincipled Fortune-hunter."
(replied he)

"Yes, (exclaimed I) amidst every misfortune, it will afford us some
consolation to reflect that by this one act of Freindship to Janetta,
we have amply discharged every obligation that we have received from her
father."

"It must indeed be a most gratefull reflection, to your exalted minds."
(said he.)

As soon as we had packed up our wardrobe and valuables, we left
Macdonald Hall, and after having walked about a mile and a half we
sate down by the side of a clear limpid stream to refresh our exhausted
limbs. The place was suited to meditation. A grove of full-grown Elms
sheltered us from the East--. A Bed of full-grown Nettles from the
West--. Before us ran the murmuring brook and behind us ran the
turn-pike road. We were in a mood for contemplation and in a Disposition
to enjoy so beautifull a spot. A mutual silence which had for some time
reigned between us, was at length broke by my exclaiming--"What a lovely
scene! Alas why are not Edward and Augustus here to enjoy its Beauties
with us?"

"Ah! my beloved Laura (cried Sophia) for pity's sake forbear recalling
to my remembrance the unhappy situation of my imprisoned Husband. Alas,
what would I not give to learn the fate of my Augustus! to know if he is
still in Newgate, or if he is yet hung. But never shall I be able so far
to conquer my tender sensibility as to enquire after him. Oh! do not
I beseech you ever let me again hear you repeat his beloved name--. It
affects me too deeply--. I cannot bear to hear him mentioned it wounds
my feelings."

"Excuse me my Sophia for having thus unwillingly offended you--" replied
I--and then changing the conversation, desired her to admire the noble
Grandeur of the Elms which sheltered us from the Eastern Zephyr. "Alas!
my Laura (returned she) avoid so melancholy a subject, I intreat you.
Do not again wound my Sensibility by observations on those elms. They
remind me of Augustus. He was like them, tall, magestic--he possessed
that noble grandeur which you admire in them."

I was silent, fearfull lest I might any more unwillingly distress her by
fixing on any other subject of conversation which might again remind her
of Augustus.

"Why do you not speak my Laura? (said she after a short pause) "I cannot
support this silence you must not leave me to my own reflections; they
ever recur to Augustus."

"What a beautifull sky! (said I) How charmingly is the azure varied by
those delicate streaks of white!"

"Oh! my Laura (replied she hastily withdrawing her Eyes from a momentary
glance at the sky) do not thus distress me by calling my Attention to
an object which so cruelly reminds me of my Augustus's blue sattin
waistcoat striped in white! In pity to your unhappy freind avoid a
subject so distressing." What could I do? The feelings of Sophia were
at that time so exquisite, and the tenderness she felt for Augustus so
poignant that I had not power to start any other topic, justly fearing
that it might in some unforseen manner again awaken all her sensibility
by directing her thoughts to her Husband. Yet to be silent would be
cruel; she had intreated me to talk.

From this Dilemma I was most fortunately releived by an accident truly
apropos; it was the lucky overturning of a Gentleman's Phaeton, on the
road which ran murmuring behind us. It was a most fortunate accident
as it diverted the attention of Sophia from the melancholy reflections
which she had been before indulging. We instantly quitted our seats and
ran to the rescue of those who but a few moments before had been in so
elevated a situation as a fashionably high Phaeton, but who were
now laid low and sprawling in the Dust. "What an ample subject for
reflection on the uncerta