ree little boys. I
hope you are very busy and very comfortable. I find no difficulty in
closing my eyes. I like our situation very much; it is far more cheerful
than Paragon, and the prospect from the drawing-room window, at which I
now write, is rather picturesque, as it commands a prospective view of
the left side of Brock Street, broken by three Lombardy poplars in the
garden of the last house in Queen's Parade.

I am rather impatient to know the fate of my best gown, but I suppose it
will be some days before Frances can get through the trunk. In the mean
time I am, with many thanks for your trouble in making it, as well as
marking my silk stockings,

                                    Yours very affectionately,
                                                            JANE.

A great deal of love from everybody.

  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon, Overton, Hants.




XV.


                                    13 QUEEN SQUARE, Sunday (June 2).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I am obliged to you for two letters, one from
yourself and the other from Mary, for of the latter I knew nothing till
on the receipt of yours yesterday, when the pigeon-basket was examined,
and I received my due. As I have written to her since the time which
ought to have brought me hers, I suppose she will consider herself, as I
choose to consider her, still in my debt.

I will lay out all the little judgment I have in endeavoring to get such
stockings for Anna as she will approve; but I do not know that I shall
execute Martha's commission at all, for I am not fond of ordering shoes;
and, at any rate, they shall all have flat heels.

What must I tell you of Edward? Truth or falsehood? I will try the
former, and you may choose for yourself another time. He was better
yesterday than he had been for two or three days before,--about as well
as while he was at Steventon. He drinks at the Hetling Pump, is to bathe
to-morrow, and try electricity on Tuesday. He proposed the latter
himself to Dr. Fellowes, who made no objection to it, but I fancy we are
all unanimous in expecting no advantage from it. At present I have no
great notion of our staying here beyond the month.

I heard from Charles last week; they were to sail on Wednesday.

My mother seems remarkably well. My uncle overwalked himself at first,
and can now only travel in a chair, but is otherwise very well.

My cloak is come home. I like it very much, and can now exclaim with
delight, like J. Bond at hay-harvest, "This is what I have been looking
for these three years." I saw some gauzes in a shop in Bath Street
yesterday at only 4_d._ a yard, but they were not so good or so pretty
as mine. Flowers are very much worn, and fruit is still more the thing.
Elizabeth has a bunch of strawberries, and I have seen grapes, cherries,
plums, and apricots. There are likewise almonds and raisins, French
plums, and tamarinds at the grocers', but I have never seen any of them
in hats. A plum or greengage would cost three shillings; cherries and
grapes about five, I believe, but this is at some of the dearest shops.
My aunt has told me of a very cheap one, near Walcot Church, to which I
shall go in quest of something for you. I have never seen an old woman
at the pump-room.

Elizabeth has given me a hat, and it is not only a pretty hat, but a
pretty style of hat too. It is something like Eliza's, only, instead of
being all straw, half of it is narrow purple ribbon. I flatter myself,
however, that you can understand very little of it from this
description. Heaven forbid that I should ever offer such encouragement
to explanations as to give a clear one on any occasion myself! But I
must write no more of this. . . .

I spent Friday evening with the Mapletons, and was obliged to submit to
being pleased in spite of my inclination. We took a very charming walk
from six to eight up Beacon Hill, and across some fields, to the village
of Charlecombe, which is sweetly situated in a little green valley, as a
village with such a name ought to be. Marianne is sensible and
intelligent; and even Jane, considering how fair she is, is not
unpleasant. We had a Miss North and a Mr. Gould of our party; the latter
walked home with me after tea. He is a very young man, just entered
Oxford, wears spectacles, and has heard that "Evelina" was written by
Dr. Johnson.

I am afraid I cannot undertake to carry Martha's shoes home, for, though
we had plenty of room in our trunks when we came, we shall have many
more things to take back, and I must allow besides for my packing.

There is to be a grand gala on Tuesday evening in Sydney Gardens, a
concert, with illuminations and fireworks. To the latter Elizabeth and I
look forward with pleasure, and even the concert will have more than
its usual charm for me, as the gardens are large enough for me to get
pretty well beyond the reach of its sound. In the morning Lady
Willoughby is to present the colors to some corps, or Yeomanry, or
other, in the Crescent, and that such festivities may have a proper
commencement, we think of going to. . . .

I am quite pleased with Martha and Mrs. Lefroy for wanting the pattern
of