pens this week at Hamstall in young Edward's removal to
school. He is going to Rugby, and is very happy in the idea of it; I
wish his happiness may last, but it will be a great change to become a
raw school-boy from being a pompous sermon-writer and a domineering
brother. It will do him good, I dare say.

Caroline has had a great escape from being burnt to death lately. As her
husband gives the account, we must believe it true. Miss Murden is
gone,--called away by the critical state of Mrs. Pottinger who has had
another severe stroke, and is without sense or speech. Miss Murden
wishes to return to Southampton if circumstances suit, but it must be
very doubtful.

We have been obliged to turn away Cholles, he grew so very drunken and
negligent, and we have a man in his place called Thomas.

Martha desires me to communicate something concerning herself which she
knows will give you pleasure, as affording her very particular
satisfaction,--it is that she is to be in town this spring with Mrs.
Dundas. I need not dilate on the subject. You understand enough of the
whys and wherefores to enter into her feelings, and to be conscious that
of all possible arrangements it is the one most acceptable to her. She
goes to Barton on leaving us, and the family remove to town in April.

What you tell me of Miss Sharpe is quite new, and surprises me a little;
I feel, however, as you do. She is born, poor thing! to struggle with
evil, and her continuing with Miss B. is, I hope, a proof that matters
are not always so very bad between them as her letters sometimes
represent.

Jenny's marriage I had heard of, and supposed you would do so too from
Steventon, as I knew you were corresponding with Mary at the time. I
hope she will not sully the respectable name she now bears.

Your plan for Miss Curling is uncommonly considerate and friendly, and
such as she must surely jump at. Edward's going round by Steventon, as I
understand he promises to do, can be no reasonable objection; Mrs. J.
Austen's hospitality is just of the kind to enjoy such a visitor.

We were very glad to know Aunt Fanny was in the country when we read of
the fire. Pray give my best compliments to the Mrs. Finches, if they are
at Gm. I am sorry to find that Sir J. Moore has a mother living, but
though a very heroic son he might not be a very necessary one to her
happiness. Deacon Morrell may be more to Mrs. Morrell.

I wish Sir John had united something of the Christian with the hero in
his death. Thank heaven! we have had no one to care for particularly
among the troops,--no one, in fact, nearer to us than Sir John himself.
Col. Maitland is safe and well; his mother and sisters were of course
anxious about him, but there is no entering much into the solicitudes of
that family.

My mother is well, and gets out when she can with the same enjoyment,
and apparently the same strength, as hitherto. She hopes you will not
omit begging Mrs. Seward to get the garden cropped for us, supposing she
leaves the house too early to make the garden any object to herself. We
are very desirous of receiving your account of the house, for your
observations will have a motive which can leave nothing to conjecture
and suffer nothing from want of memory. For one's own dear self, one
ascertains and remembers everything.

Lady Sondes is an impudent woman to come back into her old neighborhood
again; I suppose she pretends never to have married before, and wonders
how her father and mother came to have her christened Lady Sondes.

The store-closet, I hope, will never do so again, for much of the evil
is proved to have proceeded from the gutter being choked up, and we have
had it cleared. We had reason to rejoice in the child's absence at the
time of the thaw, for the nursery was not habitable. We hear of similar
disasters from almost everybody.

No news from Portsmouth. We are very patient. Mrs. Charles Fowle desires
to be kindly remembered to you. She is warmly interested in my brother
and his family.

                                  Yours very affectionately,
                                                          J. AUSTEN.

  Miss AUSTEN, EDWARD AUSTEN'S, Esq.,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XXXV.


                                  SLOANE ST., Thursday (April 18, 1811).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I have so many little matters to tell you of, that I
cannot wait any longer before I begin to put them down. I spent Tuesday
in Bentinck Street. The Cookes called here and took me back, and it was
quite a Cooke day, for the Miss Rolles paid a visit while I was there,
and Sam Arnold dropped in to tea.

The badness of the weather disconcerted an excellent plan of mine,--that
of calling on Miss Beckford again; but from the middle of the day it
rained incessantly. Mary and I, after disposing of her father and
mother, went to the Liverpool Museum and the British Gallery, and I had
some amusement at each, though my preference for men and women always
inclines me to attend more to the company than the sight.

Mrs. Cooke regrets very much that she did not see you when you called;
it was owing to a blunder amon