liberty a few days ago of asking your black velvet bonnet to
lend me its cawl, which it very readily did, and by which I have been
enabled to give a considerable improvement of dignity to cap, which was
before too _nidgetty_ to please me. I shall wear it on Thursday, but I
hope you will not be offended with me for following your advice as to
its ornaments only in part. I still venture to retain the narrow silver
round it, put twice round without any bow, and instead of the black
military feather shall put in the coquelicot one as being smarter, and
besides coquelicot is to be all the fashion this winter. After the ball
I shall probably make it entirely black.

I am sorry that our dear Charles begins to feel the dignity of
ill-usage. My father will write to Admiral Gambier. He must have already
received so much satisfaction from his acquaintance and patronage of
Frank, that he will be delighted, I dare say, to have another of the
family introduced to him. I think it would be very right in Charles to
address Sir Thomas on the occasion, though I cannot approve of your
scheme of writing to him (which you communicated to me a few nights ago)
to request him to come home and convey you to Steventon. To do you
justice, however, you had some doubts of the propriety of such a measure
yourself.

I am very much obliged to my dear little George for his message,--for
his love at least; his duty, I suppose, was only in consequence of some
hint of my favorable intentions towards him from his father or mother. I
am sincerely rejoiced, however, that I ever was born, since it has been
the means of procuring him a dish of tea. Give my best love to him. . . .

_Wednesday._--I have changed my mind, and changed the trimmings of my
cap this morning; they are now such as you suggested. I felt as if I
should not prosper if I strayed from your directions, and I think it
makes me look more like Lady Conyngham now than it did before, which is
all that one lives for now. I believe I _shall_ make my new gown like my
robe, but the back of the latter is all in a piece with the tail, and
will seven yards enable me to copy it in that respect? . . .

I have just heard from Martha and Frank: his letter was written on
November 12. All well and nothing particular.

                                                 J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.




X.


                                STEVENTON, Monday night (December 24).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--I have got some pleasant news for you which I am
eager to communicate, and therefore begin my letter sooner, though I
shall not send it sooner than usual.

Admiral Gambier, in reply to my father's application, writes as follows:
"As it is usual to keep young officers in small vessels, it being most
proper on account of their inexperience, and it being also a situation
where they are more in the way of learning their duty, your son has been
continued in the 'Scorpion;' but I have mentioned to the Board of
Admiralty his wish to be in a frigate, and when a proper opportunity
offers and it is judged that he has taken his turn in a small ship, I
hope he will be removed. With regard to your son now in the 'London' I
am glad I can give you the assurance that his promotion is likely to
take place very soon, as Lord Spencer has been so good as to say he
would include him in an arrangement that he proposes making in a short
time relative to some promotions in that quarter."

There! I may now finish my letter and go and hang myself, for I am sure
I can neither write nor do anything which will not appear insipid to you
after this. _Now_ I really think he will soon be made, and only wish we
could communicate our foreknowledge of the event to him whom it
principally concerns. My father has written to Daysh to desire that he
will inform us, if he can, when the commission is sent. Your chief wish
is now ready to be accomplished; and could Lord Spencer give happiness
to Martha at the same time, what a joyful heart he would make of yours!

I have sent the same extract of the sweets of Gambier to Charles, who,
poor fellow, though he sinks into nothing but an humble attendant on the
hero of the piece, will, I hope, be contented with the prospect held out
to him. By what the Admiral says, it appears as if he had been
designedly kept in the "Scorpion." But I will not torment myself with
conjectures and suppositions; facts shall satisfy me.

Frank had not heard from any of us for ten weeks when he wrote to me on
November 12 in consequence of Lord St. Vincent being removed to
Gibraltar. When his commission is sent, however, it will not be so long
on its road as our letters, because all the Government despatches are
forwarded by land to his lordship from Lisbon with great regularity.

I returned from Manydown this morning, and found my mother certainly in
no respect worse than when I left her. She does not like the cold
weather, but that we cannot help. I spent my time very quietly and very
pleasantly with Catherine. Miss Blackford is agreeable enough. I do not
want people to be very agreeable, as it saves me the trouble of li