ll hear of it by the same post from
Henry.

Mr. Rob. Mascall breakfasted here; he eats a great deal of butter. I
dined upon goose yesterday, which, I hope, will secure a good sale of my
second edition. Have you any tomatas? Fanny and I regale on them every
day.

Disastrous letters from the Plumptres and Oxendens. Refusals
everywhere--a blank _partout_--and it is not quite certain whether we go
or not; something may depend upon the disposition of Uncle Edward when
he comes, and upon what we hear at Chilham Castle this morning, for we
are going to pay visits. We are going to each house at Chilham and to
Mystole. I shall like seeing the Faggs. I shall like it all, except that
we are to set out so early that I have not time to write as I would
wish.

Edwd. Bridges's friend is a Mr. Hawker, I find, not Harpur. I would not
have you sleep in such an error for the world.

My brother desires his best love and thanks for all your information. He
hopes the roots of the old beech have been dug away enough to allow a
proper covering of mould and turf. He is sorry for the necessity of
building the new coin, but hopes they will contrive that the doorway
should be of the usual width,--if it must be contracted on one side, by
widening it on the other. The appearance need not signify. And he
desires me to say that your being at Chawton when he is will be quite
necessary. You cannot think it more indispensable than he does. He is
very much obliged to you for your attention to everything. Have you any
idea of returning with him to Henrietta Street and finishing your visit
then? Tell me your sweet little innocent ideas.

Everything of love and kindness, proper and improper, must now suffice.

                             Yours very affectionately,      J. AUSTEN.

  Miss AUSTEN, Chawton, Alton, Hants.

FOOTNOTE:

[25] The butler at Godmersham.




XLIX.


                                  GODMERSHAM PARK, Thursday (Oct. 14).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--Now I will prepare for Mr. Lushington, and as it
will be wisest also to prepare for his not coming, or my not getting a
frank, I shall write very close from the first, and even leave room for
the seal in the proper place. When I have followed up my last with this
I shall feel somewhat less unworthy of you than the state of our
correspondence now requires.

I left off in a great hurry to prepare for our morning visits. Of course
was ready a good deal the first, and need not have hurried so much.
Fanny wore her new gown and cap. I was surprised to find Mystole so
pretty.

The ladies were at home. I was in luck, and saw Lady Fagg and all her
five daughters, with an old Mrs. Hamilton, from Canterbury, and Mrs. and
Miss Chapman, from Margate, into the bargain. I never saw so plain a
family,--five sisters so very plain! They are as plain as the Foresters,
or the Franfraddops, or the Seagraves, or the Rivers, excluding Sophy.
Miss Sally Fagg has a pretty figure, and that comprises all the good
looks of the family.

It was stupidish; Fanny did her part very well, but there was a lack of
talk altogether, and the three friends in the house only sat by and
looked at us. However, Miss Chapman's name is Laura, and she had a
double flounce to her gown. You really must get some flounces. Are not
some of your large stock of white morning gowns just in a happy state
for a flounce--too short? Nobody at home at either house in Chilham.

Edward Bridges and his friend did not forget to arrive. The friend is a
Mr. Wigram, one of the three-and-twenty children of a great rich
mercantile, Sir Robert Wigram, an old acquaintance of the Footes, but
very recently known to Edward B. The history of his coming here is,
that, intending to go from Ramsgate to Brighton, Edw. B. persuaded him
to take Lenham on his way, which gave him the convenience of Mr. W.'s
gig, and the comfort of not being alone there; but, probably thinking a
few days of Gm. would be the cheapest and pleasantest way of
entertaining his friend and himself, offered a visit here, and here they
stay till to-morrow.

Mr. W. is about five or six-and-twenty, not ill-looking, and not
agreeable. He is certainly no addition. A sort of cool, gentlemanlike
manner, but very silent. They say his name is Henry, a proof how
unequally the gifts of fortune are bestowed. I have seen many a John and
Thomas much more agreeable.

We have got rid of Mr. R. Mascall, however. I did not like him, either.
He talks too much, and is conceited, besides having a vulgarly shaped
mouth. He slept here on Tuesday, so that yesterday Fanny and I sat down
to breakfast with six gentlemen to admire us.

We did not go to the ball. It was left to her to decide, and at last she
determined against it. She knew that it would be a sacrifice on the part
of her father and brothers if they went, and I hope it will prove that
she has not sacrificed much. It is not likely that there should have
been anybody there whom she would care for. I was very glad to be spared
the trouble of dressing and going, and being weary before it was half
over; so my gown and my cap are still unworn. It will appear at last,
perhaps, t