g the servants, for she did not know of
our visit till we were gone. She seems tolerably well, but the nervous
part of her complaint, I fear, increases, and makes her more and more
unwilling to part with Mary.

I have proposed to the latter that she should go to Chawton with me, on
the supposition of my travelling the Guildford road, and she, I do
believe, would be glad to do it, but perhaps it may be impossible;
unless a brother can be at home at that time, it certainly must. George
comes to them to-day.

I did not see Theo. till late on Tuesday; he was gone to Ilford, but he
came back in time to show his usual nothing-meaning, harmless, heartless
civility. Henry, who had been confined the whole day to the bank, took
me in his way home, and, after putting life and wit into the party for a
quarter of an hour, put himself and his sister into a hackney coach.

I bless my stars that I have done with Tuesday. But, alas! Wednesday was
likewise a day of great doings, for Manon and I took our walk to Grafton
House, and I have a good deal to say on that subject.

I am sorry to tell you that I am getting very extravagant, and spending
all my money, and, what is worse for you, I have been spending yours
too; for in a linendraper's shop to which I went for checked muslin, and
for which I was obliged to give seven shillings a yard, I was tempted by
a pretty-colored muslin, and bought ten yards of it on the chance of
your liking it; but at the same time, if it should not suit you, you
must not think yourself at all obliged to take it; it is only 3_s._
6_d._ per yard, and I should not in the least mind keeping the whole. In
texture it is just what we prefer, but its resemblance to green crewels,
I must own, is not great, for the pattern is a small red spot. And now I
believe I have done all my commissions except Wedgwood.

I liked my walk very much; it was shorter than I had expected, and the
weather was delightful. We set off immediately after breakfast, and must
have reached Grafton House by half-past eleven; but when we entered the
shop the whole counter was thronged, and we waited full half an hour
before we could be attended to. When we were served, however, I was
very well satisfied with my purchases,--my bugle trimming at 2_s._ 4_d._
and three pair silk stockings for a little less than 12_s._ a pair.

In my way back who should I meet but Mr. Moore, just come from
Beckenham. I believe he would have passed me if I had not made him stop,
but we were delighted to meet. I soon found, however, that he had
nothing new to tell me, and then I let him go.

Miss Burton has made me a very pretty little bonnet, and now nothing can
satisfy me but I must have a straw hat, of the riding-hat shape, like
Mrs. Tilson's; and a young woman in this neighborhood is actually making
me one. I am really very shocking, but it will not be dear at a guinea.
Our pelisses are 17_s._ each; she charges only 8_s._ for the making, but
the buttons seem expensive,--are expensive, I might have said, for the
fact is plain enough.

We drank tea again yesterday with the Tilsons, and met the Smiths. I
find all these little parties very pleasant. I like Mrs. S.; Miss Beaty
is good-humor itself, and does not seem much besides. We spend to-morrow
evening with them, and are to meet the Coln. and Mrs. Cantelo Smith you
have been used to hear of, and, if she is in good humor, are likely to
have excellent singing.

To-night I might have been at the play; Henry had kindly planned our
going together to the Lyceum, but I have a cold which I should not like
to make worse before Saturday, so I stay within all this day.

Eliza is walking out by herself. She has plenty of business on her hands
just now, for the day of the party is settled, and drawing near. Above
eighty people are invited for next Tuesday evening, and there is to be
some very good music,--five professionals, three of them glee singers,
besides amateurs. Fanny will listen to this. One of the hirelings is a
Capital on the harp, from which I expect great pleasure. The foundation
of the party was a dinner to Henry Egerton and Henry Walter, but the
latter leaves town the day before. I am sorry, as I wished her prejudice
to be done away, but should have been more sorry if there had been no
invitation.

I am a wretch, to be so occupied with all these things as to seem to
have no thoughts to give to people and circumstances which really supply
a far more lasting interest,--the society in which you are; but I do
think of you all, I assure you, and want to know all about everybody,
and especially about your visit to the W. Friars; _mais le moyen_ not to
be occupied by one's own concerns?

_Saturday._--Frank is superseded in the "Caledonia." Henry brought us
this news yesterday from Mr. Daysh, and he heard at the same time that
Charles may be in England in the course of a month. Sir Edward Pollen
succeeds Lord Gambier in his command, and some captain of his succeeds
Frank; and I believe the order is already gone out. Henry means to
inquire further to-day. He wrote to Mary on the occasion. This is
something to think of. Henry is co