. I
must come to you before Wednesday if it be possible, for on that day I
am going to London for a week or two with your Uncle Henry, who is
expected here on Sunday. If Monday should appear too dirty for walking,
and Mr. Lefroy would be so kind as to come and fetch me, I should be
much obliged to him. Cassy might be of the party, and your Aunt
Cassandra will take another opportunity.

                 Yours very affectionately, my dear Anna,
                                                    J. AUSTEN.


_Note by Lord Brabourne._

But before the week or two to which she had limited her visit in Hans
Place was at an end, her brother fell ill, and on October 22 he was in
such danger that she wrote to Steventon to summon her father to town.
The letter was two days on the road, and reached him on Sunday the 24th.
Even then he did not start immediately. In the evening he and his wife
rode to Chawton, and it was not until the next day that he and Cassandra
arrived in Hans Place. The malady from which Henry Austen was suffering
was low fever, and he was for some days at death's door: but he rallied
soon after his brother and sisters arrived, and recovered so quickly
that the former was able to leave him at the end of the week. The great
anxiety and fatigue which Jane underwent at this time was supposed by
some of her family to have broken down her health. She was in a very
feeble and exhausted condition when the bank in which her brother Henry
was a partner broke, and he not only lost all that he possessed, but
most of his relations suffered severely also. Jane was well enough to
pay several visits with her sister in the summer of 1816, including one
to Steventon,--the last she ever paid to that home of her childhood. The
last note which Mrs. Lefroy had preserved is dated,--




LXVIII.


                                                        JUNE 23, 1816.

MY DEAR ANNA,--Cassy desires her best thanks for the book. She was quite
delighted to see it. I do not know when I have seen her so much struck
by anybody's kindness as on this occasion. Her sensibility seems to be
opening to the perception of great actions. These gloves having appeared
on the pianoforte ever since you were here on Friday, we imagine they
must be yours. Mrs. Digweed returned yesterday through all the
afternoon's rain, and was of course wet through; but in speaking of it
she never once said "it was beyond everything," which I am sure it must
have been. Your mamma means to ride to Speen Hill to-morrow to see the
Mrs. Hulberts, who are both very indifferent. By all accounts they
really are breaking now,--not so stout as the old jackass.

                                  Yours affectionately,       J. A.

  CHAWTON, Sunday, June 23.

Uncle Charles's birthday.




LXIX.


                                  HANS PLACE, Friday (Nov. 24, 1815).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I have the pleasure of sending you a much better
account of my affairs, which I know will be a great delight to you.

I wrote to Mr. Murray yesterday myself, and Henry wrote at the same time
to Roworth. Before the notes were out of the house, I received three
sheets and an apology from R. We sent the notes, however, and I had a
most civil one in reply from Mr. M. He is so very polite, indeed, that
it is quite overcoming. The printers have been waiting for paper,--the
blame is thrown upon the stationer; but he gives his word that I shall
have no further cause for dissatisfaction. He has lent us Miss Williams
and Scott, and says that any book of his will always be at my service.
In short, I am soothed and complimented into tolerable comfort.

We had a visit yesterday from Edwd. Knight, and Mr. Mascall joined him
here; and this morning has brought Mr. Mascall's compliments and two
pheasants. We have some hope of Edward's coming to dinner to-day; he
will, if he can, I believe. He is looking extremely well.

To-morrow Mr. Haden is to dine with us. There is happiness! We really
grow so fond of Mr. Haden that I do not know what to expect. He and Mr.
Tilson and Mr. Philips made up our circle of wits last night. Fanny
played, and he sat and listened and suggested improvements, till Richard
came in to tell him that "the doctor was waiting for him at Captn.
Blake's;" and then he was off with a speed that you can imagine. He
never does appear in the least above his profession or out of humor
with it, or I should think poor Captn. Blake, whoever he is, in a very
bad way.

I must have misunderstood Henry when I told you that you were to hear
from him to-day. He read me what he wrote to Edward: part of it must
have amused him, I am sure one part, alas! cannot be very amusing to
anybody. I wonder that with such business to worry him he can be getting
better; but he certainly does gain strength, and if you and Edwd. were
to see him now, I feel sure that you would think him improved since
Monday.

He was out yesterday; it was a fine sunshiny day here (in the country
perhaps you might have clouds and fogs. Dare I say so? I shall not
deceive you, if I do, as to my estimation of the climate of London), and
he ventured firs