y it all over me, from top
to toe, from right to left, longitudinally, perpendicularly, diagonally;
and I cannot but selfishly hope we are to have it last till
Christmas,--nice, unwholesome, unseasonable, relaxing, close, muggy
weather.

Oh, thank you very much for your long letter; it did me a great deal of
good. Henry accepts your offer of making his nine gallon of mead
thankfully. The mistake of the dogs rather vexed him for a moment, but
he has not thought of it since. To-day he makes a third attempt at his
strengthening plaister, and as I am sure he will now be getting out a
great deal, it is to be wished that he may be able to keep it on. He
sets off this morning by the Chelsea coach to sign bonds and visit
Henrietta St., and I have no doubt will be going every day to Henrietta
St.

Fanny and I were very snug by ourselves as soon as we were satisfied
about our invalid's being safe at Hanwell. By manoeuvring and good luck
we foiled all the Malings' attempts upon us. Happily I caught a little
cold on Wednesday, the morning we were in town, which we made very
useful, and we saw nobody but our precious[38] and Mr. Tilson.

This evening the Malings are allowed to drink tea with us. We are in
hopes--that is, we wish--Miss Palmer and the little girls may come this
morning. You know, of course, that she could not come on Thursday, and
she will not attempt to name any other day.

God bless you. Excuse the shortness of this, but I must finish it now,
that I may save you 2_d._ Best love.

                                  Yours affectionately,     J. A.

It strikes me that I have no business to give the P. R. a binding, but
we will take counsel upon the question.

I am glad you have put the flounce on your chintz; I am sure it must
look particularly well, and it is what I had thought of.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Chawton, Alton, Hants.

FOOTNOTE:

[38] Probably a playful allusion to Mr. Haden.




LXXII.


                                               CHAWTON (Feb. 20, 1816).

MY DEAREST FANNY,--You are inimitable, irresistible. You are the delight
of my life. Such letters, such entertaining letters, as you have lately
sent! such a description of your queer little heart! such a lovely
display of what imagination does! You are worth your weight in gold, or
even in the new silver coinage. I cannot express to you what I have felt
in reading your history of yourself,--how full of pity and concern, and
admiration and amusement I have been! You are the paragon of all that is
silly and sensible, commonplace and eccentric, sad and lively, provoking
and interesting. Who can keep pace with the fluctuations of your fancy,
the capprizios of your taste, the contradictions of your feelings? You
are so odd, and all the time so perfectly natural!--so peculiar in
yourself, and yet so like everybody else!

It is very, very gratifying to me to know you so intimately. You can
hardly think what a pleasure it is to me to have such thorough pictures
of your heart. Oh, what a loss it will be when you are married! You are
too agreeable in your single state,--too agreeable as a niece. I shall
hate you when your delicious play of mind is all settled down into
conjugal and maternal affections.

Mr. B---- frightens me. He will have you. I see you at the altar. I have
some faith in Mrs. C. Cage's observation, and still more in Lizzy's; and
besides, I know it must be so. He must be wishing to attach you. It
would be too stupid and too shameful in him to be otherwise; and all the
family are seeking your acquaintance.

Do not imagine that I have any real objection; I have rather taken a
fancy to him than not, and I like the house for you. I only do not like
you should marry anybody. And yet I do wish you to marry very much,
because I know you will never be happy till you are; but the loss of a
Fanny Knight will be never made up to me. My "affec. niece F. C. B----"
will be but a poor substitute. I do not like your being nervous, and so
apt to cry,--it is a sign you are not quite well; but I hope Mr.
Scud--as you always write his name (your Mr. Scuds amuse me very
much)--will do you good.

What a comfort that Cassandra should be so recovered! It was more than
we had expected. I can easily believe she was very patient and very
good. I always loved Cassandra for her fine dark eyes and sweet temper.
I am almost entirely cured of my rheumatism,--just a little pain in my
knee now and then, to make me remember what it was, and keep on flannel.
Aunt Cassandra nursed me so beautifully.

I enjoy your visit to Goodnestone, it must be a great pleasure to you;
you have not seen Fanny Cage in comfort so long. I hope she represents
and remonstrates and reasons with you properly. Why should you be living
in dread of his marrying somebody else? (Yet how natural!) You did not
choose to have him yourself, why not allow him to take comfort where he
can? In your conscience you know that he could not bear a companion with
a more animated character. You cannot forget how you felt under the idea
of its having been possible that he might have dined in Hans Place.

My dearest Fanny, I cannot b