 from his letter that he means to
reside there, in which he shows his wisdom. Staffordshire is a good way
off; so we shall see nothing more of them till, some fifteen years
hence, the Miss Coopers are presented to us, fine, jolly, handsome,
ignorant girls. The living is valued at 140_l._ a year, but perhaps it
may be improvable. How will they be able to convey the furniture of the
dressing-room so far in safety?

Our first cousins seem all dropping off very fast. One is incorporated
into the family, another dies, and a third goes into Staffordshire. We
can learn nothing of the disposal of the other living. I have not the
smallest notion of Fulwar's having it. Lord Craven has probably other
connections and more intimate ones, in that line, than he now has with
the Kintbury family.

Our ball on Thursday was a very poor one, only eight couple and but
twenty-three people in the room; but it was not the ball's fault, for we
were deprived of two or three families by the sudden illness of Mr.
Wither, who was seized that morning at Winchester with a return of his
former alarming complaint. An express was sent off from thence to the
family; Catherine and Miss Blackford were dining with Mrs. Russell. Poor
Catherine's distress must have been very great. She was prevailed on to
wait till the Heathcotes could come from Wintney, and then with those
two and Harris proceeded directly to Winchester. In such a disorder his
danger, I suppose, must always be great; but from this attack he is now
rapidly recovering, and will be well enough to return to Manydown, I
fancy, in a few days.

It was a fine thing for conversation at the ball. But it deprived us not
only of the Biggs, but of Mrs. Russell too, and of the Boltons and John
Harwood, who were dining there likewise, and of Mr. Lane, who kept away
as related to the family. Poor man!--I mean Mr. Wither--his life is so
useful, his character so respectable and worthy, that I really believe
there was a good deal of sincerity in the general concern expressed on
his account.

Our ball was chiefly made up of Jervoises and Terrys, the former of whom
were apt to be vulgar, the latter to be noisy. I had an odd set of
partners: Mr. Jenkins, Mr. Street, Colonel Jervoise, James Digweed, J.
Lyford, and Mr. Briggs, a friend of the latter. I had a very pleasant
evening, however, though you will probably find out that there was no
particular reason for it; but I do not think it worth while to wait for
enjoyment until there is some real opportunity for it. Mary behaved very
well, and was not at all fidgetty. For the history of her adventures at
the ball I refer you to Anna's letter.

When you come home you will have some shirts to make up for Charles.
Mrs. Davies frightened him into buying a piece of Irish when we were in
Basingstoke. Mr. Daysh supposes that Captain Austen's commission has
reached him by this time.

_Tuesday._--Your letter has pleased and amused me very much. Your essay
on happy fortnights is highly ingenious, and the talobert skin made me
laugh a good deal. Whenever I fall into misfortune, how many jokes it
ought to furnish to my acquaintance in general, or I shall die
dreadfully in their debt for entertainment.

It began to occur to me before you mentioned it that I had been
somewhat silent as to my mother's health for some time, but I thought
you could have no difficulty in divining its exact state,--you, who have
guessed so much stranger things. She is tolerably well,--better upon the
whole than she was some weeks ago. She would tell you herself that she
has a very dreadful cold in her head at present; but I have not much
compassion for colds in the head without fever or sore throat.

Our own particular little brother got a place in the coach last night,
and is now, I suppose, in town. I have no objection at all to your
buying our gowns there, as your imagination has pictured to you exactly
such a one as is necessary to make me happy. You quite abash me by your
progress in notting, for I am still without silk. You must get me some
in town or in Canterbury; it should be finer than yours.

I thought Edward would not approve of Charles being a crop, and rather
wished you to conceal it from him at present, lest it might fall on his
spirits and retard his recovery. My father furnishes him with a pig from
Cheesedown; it is already killed and cut up, but it is not to weigh more
than nine stone; the season is too far advanced to get him a larger one.
My mother means to pay herself for the salt and the trouble of ordering
it to be cured by the spareribs, the souse, and the lard. We have had
one dead lamb.

I congratulate you on Mr. E. Hatton's good fortune. I suppose the
marriage will now follow out of hand. Give my compliments to Miss Finch.

What time in March may we expect your return in? I begin to be very
tired of answering people's questions on that subject, and independent
of that, I shall be very glad to see you at home again, and then if we
can get Martha and shirk . . . who will be so happy as we?

I think of going to Ibthorp in about a fortnight. My eyes are pretty
well, I thank you, if y