 sure it may all
be resolved into a better style of dress, and your having nobody else to
look at; and therefore, if you do set about a flirtation with her, you
never will persuade me that it is in compliment to her beauty, or that
it proceeds from anything but your own idleness and folly."

Her brother gave only a smile to this accusation, and soon afterwards
said, "I do not quite know what to make of Miss Fanny. I do not
understand her. I could not tell what she would be at yesterday. What is
her character? Is she solemn? Is she queer? Is she prudish? Why did she
draw back and look so grave at me? I could hardly get her to speak. I
never was so long in company with a girl in my life, trying to entertain
her, and succeed so ill! Never met with a girl who looked so grave on
me! I must try to get the better of this. Her looks say, 'I will not
like you, I am determined not to like you'; and I say she shall."

"Foolish fellow! And so this is her attraction after all! This it is,
her not caring about you, which gives her such a soft skin, and makes
her so much taller, and produces all these charms and graces! I do
desire that you will not be making her really unhappy; a _little_ love,
perhaps, may animate and do her good, but I will not have you plunge
her deep, for she is as good a little creature as ever lived, and has a
great deal of feeling."

"It can be but for a fortnight," said Henry; "and if a fortnight can
kill her, she must have a constitution which nothing could save. No, I
will not do her any harm, dear little soul! only want her to look kindly
on me, to give me smiles as well as blushes, to keep a chair for me by
herself wherever we are, and be all animation when I take it and talk
to her; to think as I think, be interested in all my possessions and
pleasures, try to keep me longer at Mansfield, and feel when I go away
that she shall be never happy again. I want nothing more."

"Moderation itself!" said Mary. "I can have no scruples now. Well, you
will have opportunities enough of endeavouring to recommend yourself,
for we are a great deal together."

And without attempting any farther remonstrance, she left Fanny to
her fate, a fate which, had not Fanny's heart been guarded in a way
unsuspected by Miss Crawford, might have been a little harder than she
deserved; for although there doubtless are such unconquerable young
ladies of eighteen (or one should not read about them) as are never
to be persuaded into love against their judgment by all that talent,
manner, attention, and flattery can do, I have no inclination to
believe Fanny one of them, or to think that with so much tenderness
of disposition, and so much taste as belonged to her, she could have
escaped heart-whole from the courtship (though the courtship only of
a fortnight) of such a man as Crawford, in spite of there being some
previous ill opinion of him to be overcome, had not her affection been
engaged elsewhere. With all the security which love of another and
disesteem of him could give to the peace of mind he was attacking,
his continued attentions--continued, but not obtrusive, and adapting
themselves more and more to the gentleness and delicacy of her
character--obliged her very soon to dislike him less than formerly. She
had by no means forgotten the past, and she thought as ill of him as
ever; but she felt his powers: he was entertaining; and his manners were
so improved, so polite, so seriously and blamelessly polite, that it was
impossible not to be civil to him in return.

A very few days were enough to effect this; and at the end of those few
days, circumstances arose which had a tendency rather to forward his
views of pleasing her, inasmuch as they gave her a degree of happiness
which must dispose her to be pleased with everybody. William, her
brother, the so long absent and dearly loved brother, was in England
again. She had a letter from him herself, a few hurried happy lines,
written as the ship came up Channel, and sent into Portsmouth with
the first boat that left the Antwerp at anchor in Spithead; and when
Crawford walked up with the newspaper in his hand, which he had hoped
would bring the first tidings, he found her trembling with joy over this
letter, and listening with a glowing, grateful countenance to the kind
invitation which her uncle was most collectedly dictating in reply.

It was but the day before that Crawford had made himself thoroughly
master of the subject, or had in fact become at all aware of her having
such a brother, or his being in such a ship, but the interest then
excited had been very properly lively, determining him on his return to
town to apply for information as to the probable period of the Antwerp's
return from the Mediterranean, etc.; and the good luck which attended
his early examination of ship news the next morning seemed the reward of
his ingenuity in finding out such a method of pleasing her, as well as
of his dutiful attention to the Admiral, in having for many years
taken in the paper esteemed to have the earliest naval intelligence. He
proved, however, to be too late. All those fine first feelings,