-grown, girls, just of
a proper size to inhabit a Castle almost as large in comparison as
themselves. I wish my dear Charlotte that you could but behold these
Scotch giants; I am sure they would frighten you out of your wits.
They will do very well as foils to myself, so I have invited them to
accompany me to London where I hope to be in the course of a fortnight.
Besides these two fair Damsels, I found a little humoured Brat here who
I beleive is some relation to them, they told me who she was, and gave
me a long rigmerole story of her father and a Miss SOMEBODY which I have
entirely forgot. I hate scandal and detest Children. I have been plagued
ever since I came here with tiresome visits from a parcel of Scotch
wretches, with terrible hard-names; they were so civil, gave me so many
invitations, and talked of coming again so soon, that I could not help
affronting them. I suppose I shall not see them any more, and yet as
a family party we are so stupid, that I do not know what to do with
myself. These girls have no Music, but Scotch airs, no Drawings but
Scotch Mountains, and no Books but Scotch Poems--and I hate everything
Scotch. In general I can spend half the Day at my toilett with a great
deal of pleasure, but why should I dress here, since there is not a
creature in the House whom I have any wish to please. I have just had
a conversation with my Brother in which he has greatly offended me, and
which as I have nothing more entertaining to send you I will gave you
the particulars of. You must know that I have for these 4 or 5 Days past
strongly suspected William of entertaining a partiality to my eldest
Daughter. I own indeed that had I been inclined to fall in love with any
woman, I should not have made choice of Matilda Lesley for the object
of my passion; for there is nothing I hate so much as a tall Woman: but
however there is no accounting for some men's taste and as William is
himself nearly six feet high, it is not wonderful that he should be
partial to that height. Now as I have a very great affection for my
Brother and should be extremely sorry to see him unhappy, which I
suppose he means to be if he cannot marry Matilda, as moreover I know
that his circumstances will not allow him to marry any one without a
fortune, and that Matilda's is entirely dependant on her Father, who
will neither have his own inclination nor my permission to give her
anything at present, I thought it would be doing a good-natured action
by my Brother to let him know as much, in order that he might choose
for himself, whether to conquer his passion, or Love and Despair.
Accordingly finding myself this Morning alone with him in one of the
horrid old rooms of this Castle, I opened the cause to him in the
following Manner.

"Well my dear William what do you think of these girls? for my part, I
do not find them so plain as I expected: but perhaps you may think me
partial to the Daughters of my Husband and perhaps you are right--They
are indeed so very like Sir George that it is natural to think"--

"My Dear Susan (cried he in a tone of the greatest amazement) You do not
really think they bear the least resemblance to their Father! He is so
very plain!--but I beg your pardon--I had entirely forgotten to whom I
was speaking--"

"Oh! pray dont mind me; (replied I) every one knows Sir George is
horribly ugly, and I assure you I always thought him a fright."

"You surprise me extremely (answered William) by what you say both with
respect to Sir George and his Daughters. You cannot think your Husband
so deficient in personal Charms as you speak of, nor can you surely see
any resemblance between him and the Miss Lesleys who are in my opinion
perfectly unlike him and perfectly Handsome."

"If that is your opinion with regard to the girls it certainly is no
proof of their Fathers beauty, for if they are perfectly unlike him and
very handsome at the same time, it is natural to suppose that he is very
plain."

"By no means, (said he) for what may be pretty in a Woman, may be very
unpleasing in a Man."

"But you yourself (replied I) but a few minutes ago allowed him to be
very plain."

"Men are no Judges of Beauty in their own Sex." (said he).

"Neither Men nor Women can think Sir George tolerable."

"Well, well, (said he) we will not dispute about HIS Beauty, but your
opinion of his DAUGHTERS is surely very singular, for if I understood
you right, you said you did not find them so plain as you expected to
do!"

"Why, do YOU find them plainer then?" (said I).

"I can scarcely beleive you to be serious (returned he) when you speak
of their persons in so extroidinary a Manner. Do not you think the Miss
Lesleys are two very handsome young Women?"

"Lord! No! (cried I) I think them terribly plain!"

"Plain! (replied He) My dear Susan, you cannot really think so! Why
what single Feature in the face of either of them, can you possibly find
fault with?"

"Oh! trust me for that; (replied I). Come I will begin with the
eldest--with Matilda. Shall I, William?" (I looked as cunning as I could
when I said it, in order to shame him).

"They are so much alike (said 