ndeavour to reclaim Sir George from the
manner of living to which he has been so long accustomed, and there is
therefore some reason to fear that you will be very well off, if you get
any fortune at all. The Jewels I should imagine too will undoubtedly be
hers, and there is too much reason to think that she will preside at
her Husbands table in preference to his Daughter. But as so melancholy a
subject must necessarily extremely distress you, I will no longer dwell
on it--.

Eloisa's indisposition has brought us to Bristol at so unfashionable a
season of the year, that we have actually seen but one genteel family
since we came. Mr and Mrs Marlowe are very agreable people; the ill
health of their little boy occasioned their arrival here; you may
imagine that being the only family with whom we can converse, we are
of course on a footing of intimacy with them; we see them indeed almost
every day, and dined with them yesterday. We spent a very pleasant
Day, and had a very good Dinner, tho' to be sure the Veal was terribly
underdone, and the Curry had no seasoning. I could not help wishing
all dinner-time that I had been at the dressing it--. A brother of Mrs
Marlowe, Mr Cleveland is with them at present; he is a good-looking
young Man, and seems to have a good deal to say for himself. I tell
Eloisa that she should set her cap at him, but she does not at all
seem to relish the proposal. I should like to see the girl married and
Cleveland has a very good estate. Perhaps you may wonder that I do not
consider myself as well as my Sister in my matrimonial Projects; but
to tell you the truth I never wish to act a more principal part at a
Wedding than the superintending and directing the Dinner, and therefore
while I can get any of my acquaintance to marry for me, I shall never
think of doing it myself, as I very much suspect that I should not have
so much time for dressing my own Wedding-dinner, as for dressing that of
my freinds. Yours sincerely C. L.




LETTER the FIFTH Miss MARGARET LESLEY to Miss CHARLOTTE LUTTERELL
Lesley-Castle March 18th

On the same day that I received your last kind letter, Matilda received
one from Sir George which was dated from Edinburgh, and informed us that
he should do himself the pleasure of introducing Lady Lesley to us on
the following evening. This as you may suppose considerably surprised
us, particularly as your account of her Ladyship had given us reason to
imagine there was little chance of her visiting Scotland at a time that
London must be so gay. As it was our business however to be delighted at
such a mark of condescension as a visit from Sir George and Lady Lesley,
we prepared to return them an answer expressive of the happiness we
enjoyed in expectation of such a Blessing, when luckily recollecting
that as they were to reach the Castle the next Evening, it would be
impossible for my father to receive it before he left Edinburgh, we
contented ourselves with leaving them to suppose that we were as happy
as we ought to be. At nine in the Evening on the following day,
they came, accompanied by one of Lady Lesleys brothers. Her Ladyship
perfectly answers the description you sent me of her, except that I do
not think her so pretty as you seem to consider her. She has not a
bad face, but there is something so extremely unmajestic in her little
diminutive figure, as to render her in comparison with the elegant
height of Matilda and Myself, an insignificant Dwarf. Her curiosity to
see us (which must have been great to bring her more than four hundred
miles) being now perfectly gratified, she already begins to mention
their return to town, and has desired us to accompany her. We cannot
refuse her request since it is seconded by the commands of our Father,
and thirded by the entreaties of Mr. Fitzgerald who is certainly one
of the most pleasing young Men, I ever beheld. It is not yet determined
when we are to go, but when ever we do we shall certainly take our
little Louisa with us. Adeiu my dear Charlotte; Matilda unites in best
wishes to you, and Eloisa, with yours ever M. L.




LETTER the SIXTH LADY LESLEY to Miss CHARLOTTE LUTTERELL Lesley-Castle
March 20th

We arrived here my sweet Freind about a fortnight ago, and I already
heartily repent that I ever left our charming House in Portman-square
for such a dismal old weather-beaten Castle as this. You can form no
idea sufficiently hideous, of its dungeon-like form. It is actually
perched upon a Rock to appearance so totally inaccessible, that I
expected to have been pulled up by a rope; and sincerely repented having
gratified my curiosity to behold my Daughters at the expence of being
obliged to enter their prison in so dangerous and ridiculous a manner.
But as soon as I once found myself safely arrived in the inside of
this tremendous building, I comforted myself with the hope of having my
spirits revived, by the sight of two beautifull girls, such as the Miss
Lesleys had been represented to me, at Edinburgh. But here again, I
met with nothing but Disappointment and Surprise. Matilda and Margaret
Lesley are two great, tall, out of the way, over