ation of it keeps us
in a worry, your grandmamma especially; she sits brooding over evils
which cannot be remedied, and conduct impossible to be understood.

Now the reports from Keppel St. are rather better; little Harriot's
headaches are abated, and Sir Evd. is satisfied with the effect of the
mercury, and does not despair of a cure. The complaint I find is not
considered incurable nowadays, provided the patient be young enough not
to have the head hardened. The water in that case may be drawn off by
mercury. But though this is a new idea to us, perhaps it may have been
long familiar to you through your friend Mr. Scud. I hope his high
renown is sustained by driving away William's cough.

Tell Wm. that Triggs is as beautiful and condescending as ever, and was
so good as to dine with us to-day, and tell him that I often play at
nines and think of him.

The Papillons came back on Friday night, but I have not seen them yet,
as I do not venture to church. I cannot hear, however, but that they are
the same Mr. P. and his sister they used to be. She has engaged a new
maidservant in Mrs. Calker's room, whom she means to make also
housekeeper under herself.

Old Philmore was buried yesterday, and I, by way of saying something to
Triggs, observed that it had been a very handsome funeral; but his
manner of reply made me suppose that it was not generally esteemed so. I
can only be sure of one part being very handsome,--Triggs himself,
walking behind in his green coat. Mrs. Philmore attended as chief
mourner, in bombazine, made very short, and flounced with crape.

_Tuesday._--I have had various plans as to this letter, but at last I
have determined that Uncle Henry shall forward it from London. I want to
see how Canterbury looks in the direction. When once Uncle H. has left
us, I shall wish him with you. London has become a hateful place to him,
and he is always depressed by the idea of it. I hope he will be in time
for your sick. I am sure he must do that part of his duty as excellently
as all the rest. He returned yesterday from Steventon, and was with us
by breakfast, bringing Edward with him, only that Edwd. stayed to
breakfast at Wyards. We had a pleasant family day, for the Altons dined
with us, the last visit of the kind probably which she will be able to
pay us for many a month.

I hope your own Henry is in France, and that you have heard from him;
the passage once over, he will feel all happiness. I took my first ride
yesterday, and liked it very much. I went up Mounter's Lane and round by
where the new cottages are to be, and found the exercise and everything
very pleasant; and I had the advantage of agreeable companions, as At.
Cass. and Edward walked by my side. At. Cass. is such an excellent
nurse, so assiduous and unwearied! But you know all that already.

                                   Very affectionately yours,
                                                          J. AUSTEN.

  Miss KNIGHT,
    Godmersham Park, Canterbury.




LXXV.


                                      CHAWTON, Sunday (Sept. 8, 1816).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I have borne the arrival of your letter to-day
extremely well; anybody might have thought it was giving me pleasure. I
am very glad you find so much to be satisfied with at Cheltenham. While
the waters agree, everything else is trifling.

A letter arrived for you from Charles last Thursday. They are all safe
and pretty well in Keppel St., the children decidedly better for
Broadstairs; and he writes principally to ask when it will be convenient
to us to receive Miss P., the little girls, and himself. They would be
ready to set off in ten days from the time of his writing, to pay their
visits in Hampshire and Berkshire, and he would prefer coming to Chawton
first.

I have answered him, and said that we hoped it might suit them to wait
till the last week in Septr., as we could not ask them sooner, either on
your account or the want of room. I mentioned the 23rd as the probable
day of your return. When you have once left Cheltenham, I shall grudge
every half-day wasted on the road. If there were but a coach from
Hungerford to Chawton! I have desired him to let me hear again soon.

He does not include a maid in the list to be accommodated; but if they
bring one, as I suppose they will, we shall have no bed in the house
even then for Charles himself,--let alone Henry. But what can we do?

We shall have the Gt. House quite at our command; it is to be cleared of
the Papillons' servants in a day or two. They themselves have been
hurried off into Essex to take possession,--not of a large estate left
them by an uncle, but to scrape together all they can, I suppose, of the
effects of a Mrs. Rawstorn, a rich old friend and cousin suddenly
deceased, to whom they are joint executors. So there is a happy end of
the Kentish Papillons coming here.

No morning service to-day, wherefore I am writing between twelve and one
o'clock. Mr. Benn in the afternoon, and likewise more rain again, by the
look and the sound of things. You left us in doubt of Mrs. Benn's
situation, but she has bespoke her nurse. . . . 