t? Why, that Mr. H. dines here again to-morrow. To-day we are to have
Mr. Barlow. Mr. H. is reading "Mansfield Park" for the first time, and
prefers it to P. and P.

A hare and four rabbits from Gm. yesterday, so that we are stocked for
nearly a week. Poor Farmer Andrews! I am very sorry for him, and
sincerely wish his recovery.

A better account of the sugar than I could have expected. I should like
to help you break some more. I am glad you cannot wake early; I am sure
you must have been under great arrears of rest.

Fanny and I have been to B. Chapel, and walked back with Maria Cuthbert.
We have been very little plagued with visitors this last week. I
remember only Miss Herries, the aunt, but I am in terror for to-day, a
fine bright Sunday; plenty of mortar, and nothing to do.

Henry gets out in his garden every day, but at present his inclination
for doing more seems over, nor has he now any plan for leaving London
before Dec. 18, when he thinks of going to Oxford for a few days;
to-day, indeed, his feelings are for continuing where he is through the
next two months.

One knows the uncertainty of all this; but should it be so, we must
think the best, and hope the best, and do the best; and my idea in that
case is, that when he goes to Oxford I should go home, and have nearly a
week of you before you take my place. This is only a silent project, you
know, to be gladly given up if better things occur. Henry calls himself
stronger every day, and Mr. H. keeps on approving his pulse, which seems
generally better than ever, but still they will not let him be well.
Perhaps when Fanny is gone he will be allowed to recover faster.

I am not disappointed: I never thought the little girl at Wyards very
pretty, but she will have a fine complexion and curly hair, and pass for
a beauty. We are glad the mamma's cold has not been worse, and send her
our love and good wishes by every convenient opportunity. Sweet, amiable
Frank! why does he have a cold too? Like Captain Mirvan to Mr. Duval,[36]
"I wish it well over with him."

Fanny has heard all that I have said to you about herself and Mr. H.
Thank you very much for the sight of dearest Charles's letter to
yourself. How pleasantly and how naturally he writes! and how perfect a
picture of his disposition and feelings his style conveys! Poor dear
fellow! Not a present!

I have a great mind to send him all the twelve copies which were to have
been dispersed among my near connections, beginning with the P. R.[2]
and ending with Countess Morley. Adieu.

                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                   J. AUSTEN.

Give my love to Cassy and Mary Jane. Caroline will be gone when this
reaches you.

  Miss AUSTEN.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] Characters in Miss Burney's "Evelina."

[37] Prince Regent.




LXXI.


                                        HANS PLACE, Saturday (Dec. 2).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Henry came back yesterday, and might have returned
the day before if he had known as much in time. I had the pleasure of
hearing from Mr. T. on Wednesday night that Mr. Seymour thought there
was not the least occasion for his absenting himself any longer.

I had also the comfort of a few lines on Wednesday morning from Henry
himself, just after your letter was gone, giving so good an account of
his feelings as made me perfectly easy. He met with the utmost care and
attention at Hanwell, spent his two days there very quietly and
pleasantly, and being certainly in no respect the worse for going, we
may believe that he must be better, as he is quite sure of being
himself. To make his return a complete gala, Mr. Haden was secured for
dinner. I need not say that our evening was agreeable.

But you seem to be under a mistake as to Mr. H. You call him an
apothecary. He is no apothecary; he has never been an apothecary; there
is not an apothecary in this neighborhood,--the only inconvenience of
the situation, perhaps,--but so it is; we have not a medical man within
reach. He is a Haden, nothing but a Haden, a sort of wonderful
nondescript creature on two legs, something between a man and an angel,
but without the least spice of an apothecary. He is, perhaps, the only
person not an apothecary hereabouts. He has never sung to us. He will
not sing without a pianoforte accompaniment.

Mr. Meyers gives his three lessons a week, altering his days and his
hours, however, just as he chooses, never very punctual, and never
giving good measure. I have not Fanny's fondness for masters, and Mr.
Meyers does not give me any longing after them. The truth is, I think,
that they are all, at least music-masters, made of too much consequence,
and allowed to take too many liberties with their scholars' time.

We shall be delighted to see Edward on Monday, only sorry that you must
be losing him. A turkey will be equally welcome with himself. He must
prepare for his own proper bedchamber here, as Henry moved down to the
one below last week; he found the other cold.

I am sorry my mother has been suffering, and am afraid this exquisite
weather is too good to agree with her. I enjo