sened. He found the last half of the last volume extremely
interesting.

I suppose my mother recollects that she gave me no money for paying
Brecknell and Twining, and my funds will not supply enough.

We are home in such good time that I can finish my letter to-night,
which will be better than getting up to do it to-morrow, especially as,
on account of my cold, which has been very heavy in my head this
evening, I rather think of lying in bed later than usual. I would not
but be well enough to go to Hertford St. on any account.

We met only Genl. Chowne to-day, who has not much to say for himself. I
was ready to laugh at the remembrance of Frederick, and such a different
Frederick as we chose to fancy him to the real Christopher!

Mrs. Tilson had long sleeves, too, and she assured me that they are worn
in the evening by many. I was glad to hear this. She dines here, I
believe, next Tuesday.

On Friday we are to be snug with only Mr. Barlowe and an evening of
business. I am so pleased that the mead is brewed. Love to all. I have
written to Mrs. Hill, and care for nobody.

                            Yours affectionately,       J. AUSTEN.

  Miss AUSTEN, Chawton.
    By favor of Mr. GRAY.

FOOTNOTE:

[30] His second wife. He died in 1853, and was succeeded by his brother,
the father of the present earl.




LV.


                                         CHAWTON, Tuesday (June 13).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--Fanny takes my mother to Alton this morning,
which gives me an opportunity of sending you a few lines without any
other trouble than that of writing them.

This is a delightful day in the country, and I hope not much too hot for
town. Well, you had a good journey, I trust, and all that, and not rain
enough to spoil your bonnet. It appeared so likely to be a wet evening
that I went up to the Gt. House between three and four, and dawdled away
an hour very comfortably, though Edwd. was not very brisk. The air was
clearer in the evening, and he was better. We all five walked together
into the kitchen garden and along the Gosport road, and they drank tea
with us.

You will be glad to hear that G. Turner has another situation, something
in the cow line, near Rumsey, and he wishes to move immediately, which
is not likely to be inconvenient to anybody.

The new nurseryman at Alton comes this morning to value the crops in the
garden.

The only letter to-day is from Mrs. Cooke to me. They do not leave home
till July, and want me to come to them, according to my promise. And,
after considering everything, I have resolved on going. My companions
promote it. I will not go, however, till after Edward is gone, that he
may feel he has a somebody to give memorandums to, to the last. I must
give up all help from his carriage, of course. And, at any rate, it must
be such an excess of expense that I have quite made up my mind to it,
and do not mean to care.

I have been thinking of Triggs and the chair, you may be sure, but I
know it will end in posting. They will meet me at Guildford.

In addition to their standing claims on me they admire "Mansfield Park"
exceedingly. Mr. Cooke says "it is the most sensible novel he ever
read," and the manner in which I treat the clergy delights them very
much. Altogether, I must go, and I want you to join me there when your
visit in Henrietta St. is over. Put this into your capacious head.

Take care of yourself, and do not be trampled to death in running after
the Emperor. The report in Alton yesterday was that they would certainly
travel this road either to or from Portsmouth. I long to know what this
bow of the Prince's will produce.

I saw Mrs. Andrews yesterday. Mrs. Browning had seen her before. She is
very glad to send an Elizabeth.

Miss Benn continues the same. Mr. Curtis, however, saw her yesterday,
and said her hand was going on as well as possible. Accept our best
love.

                                  Yours very affectionately,
                                                          J. AUSTEN.

  Miss AUSTEN, 10 Henrietta Street,
    By favor of Mr. GRAY.




LVI.


                                               THURSDAY (June 23).

DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I received your pretty letter while the children
were drinking tea with us, as Mr. Louch was so obliging as to walk over
with it. Your good account of everybody made us very happy.

I heard yesterday from Frank. When he began his letter he hoped to be
here on Monday, but before it was ended he had been told that the naval
review would not take place till Friday, which would probably occasion
him some delay, as he cannot get some necessary business of his own
attended to while Portsmouth is in such a bustle. I hope Fanny has seen
the Emperor, and then I may fairly wish them all away. I go to-morrow,
and hope for some delays and adventures.

My mother's wood is brought in, but, by some mistake, no bavins. She
must therefore buy some.

Henry at White's! Oh, what a Henry! I do not know what to wish as to
Miss B., so I will hold my tongue and my wishes.

Sackree and the children set off yesterday, and have not been returned
back upon us. They were al