king
them a great deal. I found only Catherine and her when I got to Manydown
on Thursday. We dined together, and went together to Worting to seek the
protection of Mrs. Clarke, with whom were Lady Mildmay, her eldest son,
and Mr. and Mrs. Hoare.

Our ball was very thin, but by no means unpleasant. There were
thirty-one people, and only eleven ladies out of the number, and but
five single women in the room. Of the gentlemen present you may have
some idea from the list of my partners,--Mr. Wood, G. Lefroy, Rice, a
Mr. Butcher (belonging to the Temples, a sailor and not of the 11th
Light Dragoons), Mr. Temple (not the horrid one of all), Mr. Wm. Orde
(cousin to the Kingsclere man), Mr. John Harwood, and Mr. Calland, who
appeared as usual with his hat in his hand, and stood every now and then
behind Catherine and me to be talked to and abused for not dancing. We
teased him, however, into it at last. I was very glad to see him again
after so long a separation, and he was altogether rather the genius and
flirt of the evening. He inquired after you.

There were twenty dances, and I danced them all, and without any
fatigue. I was glad to find myself capable of dancing so much, and with
so much satisfaction as I did; from my slender enjoyment of the Ashford
balls (as assemblies for dancing) I had not thought myself equal to it,
but in cold weather and with few couples I fancy I could just as well
dance for a week together as for half an hour. My black cap was openly
admired by Mrs. Lefroy, and secretly I imagine by everybody else in the
room. . . .

Poor Edward! It is very hard that he, who has everything else in the
world that he can wish for, should not have good health too. But I hope
with the assistance of stomach complaints, faintnesses, and sicknesses,
he will soon be restored to that blessing likewise. If his nervous
complaint proceeded from a suppression of something that ought to be
thrown out, which does not seem unlikely, the first of these disorders
may really be a remedy, and I sincerely wish it may, for I know no one
more deserving of happiness without alloy than Edward is. . . .

The Lords of the Admiralty will have enough of our applications at
present, for I hear from Charles that he has written to Lord Spencer
himself to be removed. I am afraid his Serene Highness will be in a
passion, and order some of our heads to be cut off. . . .

You deserve a longer letter than this; but it is my unhappy fate seldom
to treat people so well as they deserve. . . . God bless you!

                                         Yours affectionately,
                                                          JANE AUSTEN.

_Wednesday._--The snow came to nothing yesterday, so I did go to Deane,
and returned home at nine o'clock at night in the little carriage, and
without being very cold.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XI.


                                      STEVENTON, Friday (December 28).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Frank is made. He was yesterday raised to the rank
of Commander, and appointed to the "Petterel" sloop, now at Gibraltar. A
letter from Daysh has just announced this, and as it is confirmed by a
very friendly one from Mr. Mathew to the same effect, transcribing one
from Admiral Gambier to the General, we have no reason to suspect the
truth of it.

As soon as you have cried a little for joy, you may go on, and learn
further that the India House have taken _Captain Austen's_ petition into
consideration,--this comes from Daysh,--and likewise that Lieutenant
Charles John Austen is removed to the "Tamar" frigate,--this comes from
the Admiral. We cannot find out where the "Tamar" is, but I hope we
shall now see Charles here at all events.

This letter is to be dedicated entirely to good news. If you will send
my father an account of your washing and letter expenses, etc., he will
send you a draft for the amount of it, as well as for your next quarter,
and for Edward's rent. If you don't buy a muslin gown now on the
strength of this money and Frank's promotion, I shall never forgive
you.

Mrs. Lefroy has just sent me word that Lady Dorchester meant to invite
me to her ball on January 8, which, though an humble blessing compared
with what the last page records, I do not consider as any calamity.

I cannot write any more now, but I have written enough to make you very
happy, and therefore may safely conclude.

                                     Yours affectionately,      JANE.

  Miss AUSTEN, Godmersham Park.




XII.


                              STEVENTON, Tuesday (January 8, 1799).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--You must read your letters over _five_ times in
future before you send them, and then, perhaps, you may find them as
entertaining as I do. I laughed at several parts of the one which I am
now answering.

Charles is not come yet, but he must come this morning, or he shall
never know what I will do to him. The ball at Kempshott is this evening,
and I have got him an invitation, though I have not been so considerate
as to get him a partner. But the cases are different between him and
Eliza Bailey, for he is n