,
    10 Henrietta St., Covent Garden, London.




LI.


                                  GODMERSHAM PARK, Wednesday (Nov. 3).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I will keep this celebrated birthday by writing
to you; and as my pen seems inclined to write large, I will put my lines
very close together. I had but just time to enjoy your letter yesterday
before Edward and I set off in the chair for Canty., and I allowed him
to hear the chief of it as we went along.

We rejoice sincerely in Henry's gaining ground as he does, and hope
there will be weather for him to get out every day this week, as the
likeliest way of making him equal to what he plans for the next. If he
is tolerably well, the going into Oxfordshire will make him better, by
making him happier.

Can it be that I have not given you the minutiæ of Edward's plans? See,
here they are: To go to Wrotham on Saturday the 13th, spend Sunday
there, and be in town on Monday to dinner, and if agreeable to Henry,
spend one whole day with him, which day is likely to be Tuesday, and so
go down to Chawton on Wednesday.

But now I cannot be quite easy without staying a little while with
Henry, unless he wishes it otherwise; his illness and the dull time of
year together make me feel that it would be horrible of me not to offer
to remain with him, and therefore unless you know of any objection, I
wish you would tell him with my best love that I shall be most happy to
spend ten days or a fortnight in Henrietta St., if he will accept me. I
do not offer more than a fortnight, because I shall then have been some
time from home; but it will be a great pleasure to be with him, as it
always is. I have the less regret and scruple on your account, because I
shall see you for a day and a half, and because you will have Edward for
at least a week. My scheme is to take Bookham in my way home for a few
days, and my hope that Henry will be so good as to send me some part of
the way thither. I have a most kind repetition of Mrs. Cooke's two or
three dozen invitations, with the offer of meeting me anywhere in one of
her airings.

Fanny's cold is much better. By dosing and keeping her room on Sunday,
she got rid of the worst of it, but I am rather afraid of what this day
may do for her; she is gone to Canty. with Miss Clewes, Liz., and
Ma^{rnne}, and it is but roughish weather for any one in a tender state.
Miss Clewes has been going to Canty. ever since her return, and it is
now just accomplishing.

Edward and I had a delightful morning for our drive there, I enjoyed it
thoroughly; but the day turned off before we were ready, and we came
home in some rain and the apprehension of a great deal. It has not done
us any harm, however. He went to inspect the gaol, as a visiting
magistrate, and took me with him. I was gratified, and went through all
the feelings which people must go through, I think, in visiting such a
building. We paid no other visits, only walked about snugly together,
and shopped. I bought a concert ticket and a sprig of flowers for my old
age.

To vary the subject from gay to grave with inimitable address, I shall
now tell you something of the Bath party--and still a Bath party they
are, for a fit of the gout came on last week. The accounts of Lady B.
are as good as can be under such a circumstance; Dr. P. says it appears
a good sort of gout, and her spirits are better than usual, but as to
her coming away, it is of course all uncertainty. I have very little
doubt of Edward's going down to Bath, if they have not left it when he
is in Hampshire; if he does, he will go on from Steventon, and then
return direct to London, without coming back to Chawton. This detention
does not suit his feelings. It may be rather a good thing, however, that
Dr. P. should see Lady B. with the gout on her. Harriot was quite
wishing for it.

The day seems to improve. I wish my pen would too.

Sweet Mr. Ogle! I dare say he sees all the panoramas for nothing, has
free admittance everywhere; he is so delightful! Now, you need not see
anybody else.

I am glad to hear of our being likely to have a peep at Charles and
Fanny at Christmas, but do not force poor Cass. to stay if she hates it.
You have done very right as to Mrs. F. A. Your tidings of S. and S. give
me pleasure. I have never seen it advertised.

Harriot, in a letter to Fanny to-day, inquires whether they sell cloths
for pelisses at Bedford House, and, if they do, will be very much
obliged to you to desire them to send her down patterns, with the width
and prices; they may go from Charing Cross almost any day in the week,
but if it is a ready-money house it will not do, for the _bru_ of _feu_
the Archbishop says she cannot pay for it immediately. Fanny and I
suspect they do not deal in the article.

The Sherers, I believe, are now really going to go; Joseph has had a bed
here the last two nights, and I do not know whether this is not the day
of moving. Mrs. Sherer called yesterday to take leave. The weather looks
worse again.

We dine at Chilham Castle to-morrow, and I expect to find some
amusement, but more from the concert the next day, as I am sure of
seein