eness. They have been all
cleaned, hers filed, and are to be filed again. There is a very sad hole
between two of her front teeth.

_Thursday Morning, half-past Seven._--Up and dressed and downstairs in
order to finish my letter in time for the parcel. At eight I have an
appointment with Madame B., who wants to show me something downstairs.
At nine we are to set off for Grafton House, and get that over before
breakfast. Edward is so kind as to walk there with us. We are to be at
Mr. Spence's again at 11.5: from that time shall be driving about I
suppose till four o'clock at least. We are, if possible, to call on Mrs.
Tilson.

Mr. Hall was very punctual yesterday, and curled me out at a great rate.
I thought it looked hideous, and longed for a snug cap instead, but my
companions silenced me by their admiration. I had only a bit of velvet
round my head. I did not catch cold, however. The weather is all in my
favor. I have had no pain in my face since I left you.

We had very good places in the box next the stage-box, front and second
row; the three old ones behind, of course. I was particularly
disappointed at seeing nothing of Mr. Crabbe. I felt sure of him when I
saw that the boxes were fitted up with crimson velvet. The new Mr. Terry
was Lord Ogleby, and Henry thinks he may do; but there was no acting
more than moderate, and I was as much amused by the remembrances
connected with "Midas" as with any part of it. The girls were very much
delighted, but still prefer "Don Juan;" and I must say that I have seen
nobody on the stage who has been a more interesting character than that
compound of cruelty and lust.

It was not possible for me to get the worsteds yesterday. I heard Edward
last night pressing Henry to come to you, and I think Henry engaged to
go there after his November collection. Nothing has been done as to S.
and S.[23] The books came to hand too late for him to have time for it
before he went. Mr. Hastings never hinted at Eliza in the smallest
degree. Henry knew nothing of Mr. Trimmer's death. I tell you these
things that you may not have to ask them over again.

There is a new clerk sent down to Alton, a Mr. Edmund Williams, a young
man whom Henry thinks most highly of, and he turns out to be a son of
the luckless Williamses of Grosvenor Place.

I long to have you hear Mr. H.'s opinion of P. and P. His admiring my
Elizabeth so much is particularly welcome to me.

Instead of saving my superfluous wealth for you to spend, I am going to
treat myself with spending it myself. I hope, at least, that I shall
find some poplin at Layton and Shear's that will tempt me to buy it. If
I do, it shall be sent to Chawton, as half will be for you; for I depend
upon your being so kind as to accept it, being the main point. It will
be a great pleasure to me. Don't say a word. I only wish you could
choose too. I shall send twenty yards.

Now for Bath. Poor F. Cage has suffered a good deal from her accident.
The noise of the White Hart was terrible to her. They will keep her
quiet, I dare say. She is not so much delighted with the place as the
rest of the party; probably, as she says herself, from having been less
well, but she thinks she should like it better in the season. The
streets are very empty now, and the shops not so gay as she expected.
They are at No. 1 Henrietta Street, the corner of Laura Place, and have
no acquaintance at present but the Bramstons.

Lady Bridges drinks at the Cross Bath, her son at the Hot, and Louisa is
going to bathe. Dr. Parry seems to be half starving Mr. Bridges, for he
is restricted to much such a diet as James's, bread, water and meat, and
is never to eat so much of that as he wishes, and he is to walk a great
deal,--walk till he drops, I believe,--gout or no gout. It really is to
that purpose. I have not exaggerated.

Charming weather for you and us, and the travellers, and everybody. You
will take your walk this afternoon, and . . .

  Henrietta Street, the autumn of 1813.
    Miss AUSTEN, Chawton.
      By favor of Mr. Gray.

FOOTNOTES:

[20] Eliza, Henry Austen's first wife, who had died in the earlier part
of this year.

[21] "Pride and Prejudice."

[22] Lizzy and Marianne.

[23] "Sense and Sensibility."




XLVI.


                                               HENRIETTA STREET,
                                     Thursday (Sept. 16, after dinner),

THANK you, my dearest Cassandra, for the nice long letter I sent off
this morning. I hope you have had it by this time, and that it has found
you all well, and my mother no more in need of leeches. Whether this
will be delivered to you by Henry on Saturday evening, or by the postman
on Sunday morning, I know not, as he has lately recollected something of
an engagement for Saturday, which perhaps may delay his visit. He seems
determined to come to you soon, however.

I hope you will receive the gown to-morrow, and may be able with
tolerable honesty to say that you like the color. It was bought at
Grafton House, where, by going very early, we got immediate attendance
and went on very comfortably. I only forgot the one particular thing
which I ha