randpapa, to Anna, to little Edward,
to Aunt James and Uncle James, and he hopes all your turkeys and ducks
and chicken and guinea fowls are very well; and he wishes you very much
to send him a printed letter, and so does Fanny--and they both rather
think they shall answer it. . . .

Dr. Gardiner was married yesterday to Mrs. Percy and her three
daughters.

Now I will give you the history of Mary's veil, in the purchase of which
I have so considerably involved you that it is my duty to economize for
you in the flowers. I had no difficulty in getting a muslin veil for
half a guinea, and not much more in discovering afterwards that the
muslin was thick, dirty, and ragged, and therefore would by no means do
for a united gift. I changed it consequently as soon as I could, and,
considering what a state my imprudence had reduced me to, I thought
myself lucky in getting a black lace one for sixteen shillings. I hope
the half of that sum will not greatly exceed what you had intended to
offer upon the altar of sister-in-law affection.

                                      Yours affectionately,      JANE.

They do not seem to trouble you much from Manydown. I have long wanted
to quarrel with them, and I believe I shall take this opportunity. There
is no denying that they are very capricious--for they like to enjoy
their elder sister's company when they can.

  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon, Overton, Hants.

FOOTNOTE:

[4] The title first chosen for "Pride and Prejudice."




XVII.


                                 STEVENTON, Thursday (November 20, 1800).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your letter took me quite by surprise this morning;
you are very welcome, however, and I am very much obliged to you. I
believe I drank too much wine last night at Hurstbourne; I know not how
else to account for the shaking of my hand to-day. You will kindly make
allowance therefore for any indistinctness of writing, by attributing it
to this venial error.

Naughty Charles did not come on Tuesday, but good Charles came yesterday
morning. About two o'clock he walked in on a Gosport hack. His feeling
equal to such a fatigue is a good sign, and his feeling no fatigue in it
a still better. He walked down to Deane to dinner; he danced the whole
evening, and to-day is no more tired than a gentleman ought to be.

Your desiring to hear from me on Sunday will, perhaps, bring you a more
particular account of the ball than you may care for, because one is
prone to think much more of such things the morning after they happen,
than when time has entirely driven them out of one's recollection.

It was a pleasant evening; Charles found it remarkably so, but I cannot
tell why, unless the absence of Miss Terry, towards whom his conscience
reproaches him with being now perfectly indifferent, was a relief to
him. There were only twelve dances, of which I danced nine, and was
merely prevented from dancing the rest by the want of a partner. We
began at ten, supped at one, and were at Deane before five. There were
but fifty people in the room; very few families indeed from our side of
the county, and not many more from the other. My partners were the two
St. Johns, Hooper, Holder, and a very prodigious Mr. Mathew, with whom I
called the last, and whom I liked the best of my little stock.

There were very few beauties, and such as there were were not very
handsome. Miss Iremonger did not look well, and Mrs. Blount was the
only one much admired. She appeared exactly as she did in September,
with the same broad face, diamond bandeau, white shoes, pink husband,
and fat neck. The two Miss Coxes were there; I traced in one the remains
of the vulgar, broad-featured girl who danced at Enham eight years ago;
the other is refined into a nice, composed-looking girl, like Catherine
Bigg. I looked at Sir Thomas Champneys, and thought of poor Rosalie; I
looked at his daughter, and thought her a queer animal with a white
neck. Mrs. Warren I was constrained to think a very fine young woman,
which I much regret. She danced away with great activity. Her husband is
ugly enough, uglier even than his cousin John; but he does not look so
_very_ old. The Miss Maitlands are both prettyish, very like Anne, with
brown skins, large dark eyes, and a good deal of nose. The General has
got the gout, and Mrs. Maitland the jaundice. Miss Debary, Susan, and
Sally, all in black, but without any statues, made their appearance, and
I was as civil to them as circumstances would allow me. . . .

Mary said that I looked very well last night. I wore my aunt's gown and
handkerchief, and my hair was at least tidy, which was all my ambition.
I will now have done with the ball, and I will moreover go and dress for
dinner. . . .

Farewell; Charles sends you his best love, and Edward his worst. If you
think the distinction improper, you may take the worst yourself. He
will write to you when he gets back to his ship, and in the mean time
desires that you will consider me as

                                    Your affectionate sister,      J. A.

_Friday._--I have determined to go on Thursday, but of course not before
the post comes in