Produced by Suzanne Shell, Emmy and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)







[Transcriber's Note: letters that were superscripted in the original are
surrounded by brackets and preceded by a caret ^.]



_JANE AUSTEN'S WORKS._


    SENSE AND SENSIBILITY                    2 vols.
    PRIDE AND PREJUDICE                      2 vols.
    MANSFIELD PARK                           2 vols.
    EMMA                                     2 vols.
    NORTHANGER ABBEY                         1 vol.
    PERSUASION                               1 vol.
    LADY SUSAN--THE WATSONS WITH A MEMOIR    1 vol.
    LETTERS                                  1 vol.

[Illustration: J. Austen

_From a Painting in the possession of the Rev. Morland Rice, of
Bramber._]




THE LETTERS

OF

JANE AUSTEN

_Selected from the Compilation of her Great Nephew_

_EDWARD, LORD BRADBOURNE_

BY SARAH CHAUNCEY WOOLSEY


    BOSTON
    LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY
    1908


[Transcriber's Note: While the title page gives credit to Lord
Bradbourne, the actual title of Edward was Lord Brabourne.]




    _Copyright, 1892_,
    BY ROBERTS BROTHERS.


    Printers
    S. J. PARKHILL & CO., BOSTON, U. S. A.




PREFACE.


THE recent cult for Miss Austen, which has resulted in no less than ten
new editions of her novels within a decade and three memoirs by
different hands within as many years, have made the facts of her life
familiar to most readers. It was a short life, and an uneventful one as
viewed from the standpoint of our modern times, when steam and
electricity have linked together the ends of the earth, and the very air
seems teeming with news, agitations, discussions. We have barely time to
recover our breath between post and post; and the morning paper with its
statements of disaster and its hints of still greater evils to be, is
scarcely out-lived, when, lo! in comes the evening issue, contradicting
the news of the morning, to be sure, but full of omens and auguries of
its own to strew our pillows with the seed of wakefulness.

To us, publications come hot and hot from the press. Telegraphic wires
like the intricate and incalculable zigzags of the lightning ramify
above our heads; and who can tell at what moment their darts may
strike? In Miss Austen's day the tranquil, drowsy, decorous English day
of a century since, all was different. News travelled then from hand to
hand, carried in creaking post-wagons, or in cases of extreme urgency by
men on horseback. When a gentleman journeying in his own "chaise" took
three days in going from Exeter to London, a distance now covered in
three hours of railroad, there was little chance of frequent surprises.
Love, sorrow, and death were in the world then as now, and worked their
will upon the sons of men; but people did not expect happenings every
day or even every year. No doubt they lived the longer for this
exemption from excitement, and kept their nerves in a state of wholesome
repair; but it goes without saying that the events of which they knew so
little did not stir them deeply.

Miss Austen's life coincided with two of the momentous epochs of
history,--the American struggle for independence, and the French
Revolution; but there is scarcely an allusion to either in her letters.
She was interested in the fleet and its victories because two of her
brothers were in the navy and had promotion and prize-money to look
forward to. In this connection she mentions Trafalgar and the Egyptian
expedition, and generously remarks that she would read Southey's "Life
of Nelson" if there was anything in it about her brother Frank! She
honors Sir John Moore by remarking after his death that his mother
would perhaps have preferred to have him less distinguished and still
alive; further than that, the making of the gooseberry jam and a good
recipe for orange wine interests her more than all the marchings and
countermarchings, the manoeuvres and diplomacies, going on the world
over. In the midst of the universal vortex of fear and hope, triumph and
defeat, while the fate of Britain and British liberty hung trembling in
the balance, she sits writing her letters, trimming her caps, and
discussing small beer with her sister in a lively and unruffled fashion
wonderful to contemplate. "The society of rural England in those days,"
as Mr. Goldwin Smith happily puts it, "enjoyed a calm of its own in the
midst of the European tempest like the windless centre of a circular
storm."

The point of view of a woman with such an environment must naturally be
circumscribed and narrow; and in this Miss Austen's charm consists.
Seeing little, she painted what she saw with absolute fidelity and a
dexterity and perfection unequalled. "On her was bestowed, though in a
humble form, the gift which had been bestowed on Homer, Shakespeare,
Cervantes, Scott, and a few others,--the gift of creative power."
Endowed with the keenest and most delicate insight and a vivid sense of
humor, she depicted with exactitude what she observ