f-steaks and a boiled fowl, but no
oyster sauce.

I should have begun my letter soon after our arrival, but for a little
adventure which prevented me. After we had been here a quarter of an
hour it was discovered that my writing and dressing boxes had been by
accident put into a chaise which was just packing off as we came in, and
were driven away toward Gravesend in their way to the West Indies. No
part of my property could have been such a prize before, for in my
writing-box was all my worldly wealth, 7_l._, and my dear Harry's
deputation. Mr. Nottley immediately despatched a man and horse after the
chaise, and in half an hour's time I had the pleasure of being as rich
as ever; they were got about two or three miles off.

My day's journey has been pleasanter in every respect than I expected. I
have been very little crowded and by no means unhappy. Your
watchfulness with regard to the weather on our accounts was very kind
and very effectual. We had one heavy shower on leaving Sittingbourne,
but afterwards the clouds cleared away, and we had a very bright
_chrystal_ afternoon.

My father is now reading the "Midnight Bell," which he has got from the
library, and mother sitting by the fire. Our route to-morrow is not
determined. We have none of us much inclination for London, and if Mr.
Nottley will give us leave, I think we shall go to Staines through
Croydon and Kingston, which will be much pleasanter than any other way;
but he is decidedly for Clapham and Battersea. God bless you all!

                                         Yours affectionately, J. A.

I flatter myself that _itty Dordy_ will not forget me at least under a
week. Kiss him for me.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham.




VII.


                                    STEVENTON, Saturday (October 27).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your letter was a most agreeable surprise to me
to-day, and I have taken a long sheet of paper to show my gratitude.

We arrived here yesterday between four and five, but I cannot send you
quite so triumphant an account of our last day's journey as of the
first and second. Soon after I had finished my letter from Staines, my
mother began to suffer from the exercise or fatigue of travelling, and
she was a good deal indisposed. She had not a very good night at
Staines, but bore her journey better than I had expected, and at
Basingstoke, where we stopped more than half an hour, received much
comfort from a mess of broth and the sight of Mr. Lyford, who
recommended her to take twelve drops of laudanum when she went to bed as
a composer, which she accordingly did.

James called on us just as we were going to tea, and my mother was well
enough to talk very cheerfully to him before she went to bed. James
seems to have taken to his old trick of coming to Steventon in spite of
Mary's reproaches, for he was here before breakfast and is now paying us
a second visit. They were to have dined here to-day, but the weather is
too bad. I have had the pleasure of hearing that Martha is with them.
James fetched her from Ibthorp on Thursday, and she will stay with them
till she removes to Kintbury.

We met with no adventures at all in our journey yesterday, except that
our trunk had once nearly slipped off, and we were obliged to stop at
Hartley to have our wheels greased.

Whilst my mother and Mr. Lyford were together I went to Mrs. Ryder's and
bought what I intended to buy, but not in much perfection. There were
no narrow braces for children, and scarcely any notting silk; but Miss
Wood, as usual, is going to town very soon, and will lay in a fresh
stock. I gave 2_s._ 3_d._ a yard for my flannel, and I fancy it is not
very good, but it is so disgraceful and contemptible an article in
itself that its being comparatively good or bad is of little importance.
I bought some Japan ink likewise, and next week shall begin my
operations on my hat, on which you know my principal hopes of happiness
depend.

I am very grand indeed; I had the dignity of dropping out my mother's
laudanum last night. I carry about the keys of the wine and closet, and
twice since I began this letter have had orders to give in the kitchen.
Our dinner was very good yesterday, and the chicken boiled perfectly
tender; therefore I shall not be obliged to dismiss Nanny on that
account.

Almost everything was unpacked and put away last night. Nanny chose to
do it, and I was not sorry to be busy. I have unpacked the gloves, and
placed yours in your drawer. Their color is light and pretty, and I
believe exactly what we fixed on.

Your letter was chaperoned here by one from Mrs. Cooke, in which she
says that "Battleridge" is not to come out before January, and she is so
little satisfied with Cawthorn's dilatoriness that she never means to
employ him again.

Mrs. Hall, of Sherborne, was brought to bed yesterday of a dead child,
some weeks before she expected, owing to a fright. I suppose she
happened unawares to look at her husband.

There has been a great deal of rain here for this last fortnight, much
more than in Kent, and indeed we found the roads all the way from
Staines most disgracefully 