nt always to admire
each other's works; I never fail listening to HER Music, and she is as
constant in eating my pies. Such at least was the case till Henry Hervey
made his appearance in Sussex. Before the arrival of his Aunt in our
neighbourhood where she established herself you know about a twelvemonth
ago, his visits to her had been at stated times, and of equal and
settled Duration; but on her removal to the Hall which is within a walk
from our House, they became both more frequent and longer. This as you
may suppose could not be pleasing to Mrs Diana who is a professed enemy
to everything which is not directed by Decorum and Formality, or which
bears the least resemblance to Ease and Good-breeding. Nay so great was
her aversion to her Nephews behaviour that I have often heard her give
such hints of it before his face that had not Henry at such times been
engaged in conversation with Eloisa, they must have caught his Attention
and have very much distressed him. The alteration in my Sisters
behaviour which I have before hinted at, now took place. The Agreement
we had entered into of admiring each others productions she no
longer seemed to regard, and tho' I constantly applauded even every
Country-dance, she played, yet not even a pidgeon-pye of my making could
obtain from her a single word of approbation. This was certainly enough
to put any one in a Passion; however, I was as cool as a cream-cheese
and having formed my plan and concerted a scheme of Revenge, I was
determined to let her have her own way and not even to make her a single
reproach. My scheme was to treat her as she treated me, and tho' she
might even draw my own Picture or play Malbrook (which is the only tune
I ever really liked) not to say so much as "Thank you Eloisa;" tho'
I had for many years constantly hollowed whenever she played, BRAVO,
BRAVISSIMO, ENCORE, DA CAPO, ALLEGRETTO, CON EXPRESSIONE, and POCO
PRESTO with many other such outlandish words, all of them as Eloisa told
me expressive of my Admiration; and so indeed I suppose they are, as I
see some of them in every Page of every Music book, being the sentiments
I imagine of the composer.

I executed my Plan with great Punctuality. I can not say success, for
alas! my silence while she played seemed not in the least to displease
her; on the contrary she actually said to me one day "Well Charlotte,
I am very glad to find that you have at last left off that ridiculous
custom of applauding my Execution on the Harpsichord till you made
my head ake, and yourself hoarse. I feel very much obliged to you for
keeping your admiration to yourself." I never shall forget the very
witty answer I made to this speech. "Eloisa (said I) I beg you would
be quite at your Ease with respect to all such fears in future, for
be assured that I shall always keep my admiration to myself and my own
pursuits and never extend it to yours." This was the only very severe
thing I ever said in my Life; not but that I have often felt myself
extremely satirical but it was the only time I ever made my feelings
public.

I suppose there never were two Young people who had a greater affection
for each other than Henry and Eloisa; no, the Love of your Brother for
Miss Burton could not be so strong tho' it might be more violent. You
may imagine therefore how provoked my Sister must have been to have
him play her such a trick. Poor girl! she still laments his Death with
undiminished constancy, notwithstanding he has been dead more than six
weeks; but some People mind such things more than others. The ill state
of Health into which his loss has thrown her makes her so weak, and so
unable to support the least exertion, that she has been in tears all
this Morning merely from having taken leave of Mrs. Marlowe who with her
Husband, Brother and Child are to leave Bristol this morning. I am sorry
to have them go because they are the only family with whom we have here
any acquaintance, but I never thought of crying; to be sure Eloisa
and Mrs Marlowe have always been more together than with me, and have
therefore contracted a kind of affection for each other, which does not
make Tears so inexcusable in them as they would be in me. The Marlowes
are going to Town; Cliveland accompanies them; as neither Eloisa nor I
could catch him I hope you or Matilda may have better Luck. I know not
when we shall leave Bristol, Eloisa's spirits are so low that she is
very averse to moving, and yet is certainly by no means mended by her
residence here. A week or two will I hope determine our Measures--in the
mean time believe me and etc--and etc--Charlotte Lutterell.




LETTER the EIGHTH Miss LUTTERELL to Mrs MARLOWE Bristol April 4th

I feel myself greatly obliged to you my dear Emma for such a mark of
your affection as I flatter myself was conveyed in the proposal you made
me of our Corresponding; I assure you that it will be a great releif to
me to write to you and as long as my Health and Spirits will allow
me, you will find me a very constant correspondent; I will not say
an entertaining one, for you know my situation suffciently not to be
ignorant that in me