ty step came up the passage,
the door was pushed abruptly open, and Ralph was looking into the room,
with one or two others beyond him.

"I did not know," he began, and flushed a little, smiling and making as
if to close the door. But Cromwell's face, with its long upper lip and
close-set grey eyes, appeared over his shoulder, and Ralph turned round,
almost deprecatingly.

"I beg your pardon, sir; this is Mistress Atherton, and her woman."

Cromwell came forward into the room, with a kind of keen smile, in his
rich dress and chain.

"Mistress Beatrice Atherton?" he said with a questioning deference; and
Ralph introduced them to one another. Beatrice was conscious of a good
deal of awkwardness. It was uncomfortable to be caught here, as if she
had come to spy out something. She felt herself flushing as she
explained that she had had no idea who was there.

Cromwell looked at her very pleasantly.

"There is nothing to ask pardon for, Mistress," he said. "I knew you
were a friend of Mr. Torridon. He has told me everything."

Ralph seemed strangely ill-at-case, Beatrice thought, as Cromwell
congratulated them both with a very kindly air, and then turned towards
the hall again.

"My lord," he called, "my lord--"

Then Beatrice saw a tall ecclesiastic, clean-shaven, with a strangely
insignificant but kindly face, with square drooping lip and narrow hazel
eyes, come forward in his prelate's dress; and at the sight of him her
eyes grew hard and her lips tight.

"My lord," said Cromwell, "this is Mistress Beatrice Torridon."

The prelate put out his hand, smiling faintly, with the ring uppermost
to be kissed. Beatrice stood perfectly still. She could see Ralph at an
angle looking at her imploringly.

"You know my Lord of Canterbury," said Cromwell, in an explanatory
voice.

"I know my Lord of Canterbury," said Beatrice.

There was a dead silence for a moment, and then a faint whimper from the
maid.

Cranmer dropped his hand, but still smiled, turning to Ralph.

"We must be gone, Mr. Torridon. Master Cromwell has very kindly--"

Cromwell who had stood amazed for a moment, turned round at his name.

"Yes," he said to Ralph, "my lord is to come with me. And you will be
at my house to-morrow."

He said good-day to the girl, looking at her with an amused interest
that made her flush; and as Dr. Cranmer passed out of the street-door to
the carriage with Ralph bare-headed beside him, he spoke very softly.

"You are like the others, mistress," he said; and shook his heavy head
at her like an indulgent father. Then he too turned and went out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beatrice went across at once to the other room, leaving her maid behind,
and stood by the hearth as Ralph came in. She heard the door close and
his footstep come across the floor beside her.

"Beatrice," said Ralph.

She turned round and looked at him.

"You must not scold me," she said with great serenity. "You must leave
me my conscience." Ralph's face cleared instantly.

"No, no," he said. "I feared it would be the other way."

"A married priest, they say!" remarked the girl, but without bitterness.

"I daresay, my darling,--but--but I have more tenderness for marriage
than I had."

Beatrice's black eyes just flickered with amusement.

"Yes; but priests!" she said.

"Yes--even priests--" said Ralph, smiling back.

Beatrice turned to a chair and sat down.

"I suppose I must not ask any questions," she said, glancing up for a
moment at Ralph's steady eyes. She thought he looked a little uneasy
still.

"Oh! I scarcely know," said Ralph; and he took a turn across the room
and came back. She waited, knowing that she had already put her
question, and secretly pleased that he knew it, and was perplexed by it.

"I scarcely know," he said again, standing opposite her.
"Well,--yes--all will know it soon."

"Oh! I can wait till then," said Beatrice quickly, not sure whether she
were annoyed or not by being told a secret of such a common nature.
Ralph glanced at her, not sure either.

"I am afraid--" he began.

"No--no," she said, ashamed of her doubt. "I do not wish to know; I can
wait."

"I will tell you," said Ralph. He went and sat down in the chair
opposite, crossing his legs.

"It is about the Visitation of the Religious Houses. I am to go with the
Visitors in September."

Beatrice felt a sudden and rather distressed interest; but she showed no
sign of it.

"Ah, yes!" she said softly, "and what will be your work?"

Ralph was reassured by her tone.

"We are to go to the southern province. I am with Dr. Layton's party. We
shall make enquiries of the state of Religion, how it is observed and so
forth; and report to Master Cromwell."

Beatrice looked down in a slightly side-long way.

"I know what you are thinking," said Ralph, his tone a mixture of
amusement and pride. She looked up silently.

"Yes I knew it was so," he went on, smiling straight at her. "You are
wondering what in the world I know about Religious Houses. But I have a
brother--"

A shadow went over her face; Ralph saw she did not like the allusion.

"Besides," he went on again, "they need intelligent me