his?"

The priest waved the paper in the air.

"A monk himself," he said, "a monk himself! That is the cream of it."

"A monk!" exclaimed Ralph.

"He was one till last year," explained the priest.

"And then?" said the other.

"He was expelled the monastery. He knew too much, you see."

Ralph leaned back.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later there was a change in his attitude: his doubts were
almost gone; the flood of detail was too vast to be dismissed as wholly
irrelevant; his imagination was affected by the evidence from without
and his will from within, and he listened without hostility, telling
himself that he desired only truth and justice.

There were at least half a dozen stories in the mass of filthy suspicion
that the priest exultingly poured out which appeared convincing;
particularly one about which Ralph put a number of questions.

In this there was first a quantity of vague evidence gathered from the
country-folk, who were, unless Layton lied quite unrestrainedly,
convinced of the immoral life of a certain monk. The report of his sin
had penetrated ten miles from the house where he lived. There was
besides definite testimony from one of his fellows, precise and
detailed; and there was lastly a half admission from the culprit
himself. All this was worked up with great skill--suggestive epithets
were plastered over the weak spots in the evidence; clever theories put
forward to account for certain incompatibilities; and to Ralph at least
it was convincing.

He found himself growing hot with anger at the thought of the hypocrisy
of this monk's life. Here the fellow had been living in gross sin month
after month, and all the while standing at the altar morning by morning,
and going about in the habit of a professed servant of Jesus Christ!

"But I have kept the cream till the last," put in Dr. Layton. And he
read out a few more hideous sentences, that set Ralph's heart heaving
with disgust.

He began now to feel the beginnings of that fury against white-washed
vice with which worldly souls are so quick to burn. He would have said
that he himself professed no holiness beyond the average, and would have
acknowledged privately at least that he was at any rate uncertain of the
whole dogmatic scheme of religion; but that he could not tolerate a man
whose whole life was on the outside confessedly devoted to both sides of
religion, faith and morals, and who claimed the world's reverence for
himself on the score of it. He knit his forehead in a righteous fury,
and his fingers began to drum softly on his chair-arms.

Dr. Layton now began to recur to some of the first stories he had told,
and to build up their weak places; and now that Ralph was roused his
critical faculty subsided. They appeared more convincing than before in
the light of this later evidence. _Ex pede Herculem_--from the fellow
who had confessed he interpreted the guilt of those who had not. The
seed of suspicion sprang quickly in the soil that hungered for it.

This then was the fair religious system that was dispersed over England;
and this the interior life of those holy looking roofs and buildings
surmounted by the sign of the Crucified, visible in every town to point
men to God. When he saw a serene monk's face again he would know what
kind of soul it covered; he would understand as never before how vice
could wear a mask of virtue.

The whole of that flimsy evidence that he had heard before took a new
colour; those hints and suspicions and guesses grew from shadow to
substance. Those dark spots were not casual filth dropped from above,
they were the symptoms of a deep internal infection.

As Dr. Layton went on with his tales, gathered and garnered with
devilish adroitness, and presented as convincingly as a clever brain
could do it, the black certainty fell deeper and deeper on Ralph's soul,
and by the time that the priest chuckled for the last time that evening,
and gathered up his papers from the boards where they had fallen one by
one, he had done his work in another soul.




CHAPTER III

A HOUSE OF LADIES


They parted the next day, Dr. Layton to Waverly, where he proposed to
sleep on Saturday night, and Ralph to the convent at Rusper.

He had learnt now how the work was to be done; and he had been equipped
for it in a way that not even Dr. Layton himself suspected; for he had
been set aflame with that filth-fed fire with which so many hearts were
burning at this time. He had all the saint's passion for purity, without
the charity of his holiness.

He had learnt too the technical details of his work--those rough methods
by which men might be coerced, and the high-sounding phrases with which
to gild the coercion. All that morning he had sat side by side with Dr.
Layton in the chapter-house, inspecting the books, comparing the
possessions of the monastery with the inventories of them, examining
witnesses as to the credibility of the lists offered, and making
searching enquiries as to whether any land or plate had been sold. After
that, when a silver relic-case had been added to Dr. Layton's
collection, the Religious and serv