 solemnly, his voice a little tremulous, and his
kindly eyes were cast down, and Ralph watched him sidelong with a little
awe and pity mingled. He seemed so natural too, that Ralph thought that
he must have over-rated his own indiscretion.

A shadow fell across the door into the garden as they came near it, and
one of the girls appeared in the opening.

"Why, Meg," cried her father, "what is it, my darling?"

"Beatrice has come, sir," said the girl. "I thought you would wish to
know."

More put out his arm and laid it round his daughter's waist as she
turned with him.

"Come, Mr. Torridon," he said, "if you have no more to say, let us go
and see Beatrice."

There was a group on the lawn under one of the lime trees, two or three
girls and Mr. Roper, who all rose to their feet as the three came up.
More immediately sat down on the grass, putting his feet delicately
together before him.

"Will, fetch this gentleman a chair. It is not fit for Master
Cromwell's friend to sit on the grass like you and me."

Ralph threw himself down on the lawn instantly, entreating Mr. Roper not
to move.

"Well, well," said Sir Thomas, "let be. Sit down too, Will, _et cubito
remanete presso_. Mr. Torridon understands that, I know, even if Master
Cromwell's friend does not. Why, tillie-vallie, as Mrs. More says, I
have not said a word to Beatrice. Beatrice, this is Mr. Ralph Torridon,
and this, Mr. Torridon, is Beatrice. Her other name is Atherton, but to
me she is a feminine benediction, and nought else."

Ralph rose swiftly and looked across at a tall slender girl that was
sitting contentedly on an outlying root of the lime tree, beside of Sir
Thomas, and who rose with him.

"Mr. More cannot let my name alone, Mr. Torridon," she said tranquilly,
as she drew back after the salute. "He made a play upon it the other
day."

"And have been ashamed of it ever since," said More; "it was sacrilege
with such a name. Now, I am plain Thomas, and more besides. Why did you
send for me, Beatrice?"

"I have no defence," said the girl, "save that I wanted to see you."

"And that is the prettiest defence you could have made--if it does not
amount to corruption. Mr. Torridon, what is the repartee to that?"

"I need no advocate," said the girl; "I can plead well enough."

Ralph looked up at her again with a certain interest. She seemed on
marvellously good terms with the whole family, and had an air of being
entirely at her ease. She had her black eyes bent down on to a piece of
grass that she was twisting into a ring between her slender jewelled
fingers, and her white teeth wore closed firmly on her lower lip as she
worked. Her long silk skirts lay out unregarded on the grass, and her
buckles gleamed beneath. Her voice was pleasant and rather deep, and
Ralph found himself wondering who she was, and why he had not seen her
before, for she evidently belonged to his class, and London was a small
place.

"I see you are making one more chain to bind me to you," said More
presently, watching her.

She held it up.

"A ring only," she said.

"Then it is not for me," said More, "for I do not hold with Dr.
Melanchthon, nor yet Solomon in the matter of wives. Now, Mr. Torridon,
tell us all some secrets. Betray your master. We are all agog. Leave off
that ring, Beatrice, and attend."

"I am listening," said the girl as serenely as before, still intent on
her weaving.

"The King breakfasted this morning at eight of the clock," said Ralph
gravely. "It is an undoubted fact, I had it on the highest authority."

"This is excellent," said Sir Thomas. "Let us all talk treason. I can
add to that. His Grace had a fall last night and lay senseless for
several hours."

He spoke with such gravity that Ralph glanced up. At the same moment
Beatrice looked up from her work and their eyes met.

"He fell asleep," added Sir Thomas.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was very pleasant to lie there in the shadow of the lime that
afternoon, and listen to the mild fooling, and Ralph forgot his
manners, and almost his errand too, and never offered to move. The grass
began to turn golden as the sun slanted to the West, and the birds began
to stir after the heat of the day, and to chirp from tree to tree. A
hundred yards away the river twinkled in the sun, seen beyond the trees
and the house, and the voices of the boatmen came, softened by distance
and water, as they plied up and down the flowing highway. Once a barge
went past under the Battersea bank, with music playing in the stern, and
Ralph raised himself on his elbow to watch it as it went down the stream
with flags flying behind, and the rhythmical throb of the row-locks
sounding time to the dancing melody.

Ralph did his best to fall in with the humour of the day, and told a
good story or two in his slow voice--among them one of his mother
exercising her gift of impressive silence towards a tiresome chatterbox
of a man, with such effect that the conversationalist's words died on
his lips, after the third or fourth pause made for applause and comment.
He told the story well, and Lady Torridon seemed to move among them, her
skirts dr