s gone, and it was a lamentable shame; Rome was
gone, and the air was the sweeter for it; and then in an instant, like
the soar of a bird, He was up and away--away from the horrid gulf where
He had looked just now, from the fragments of charred bodies, and
tumbled houses and all the signs of man's disgrace, to the pure air and
sunlight to which man must once more set his face. Yet He bore with Him
in that wonderful flight the dew of tears and the aroma of earth. He had
not spared words with which to lash and whip the naked human heart, and
He did not spare words to lift up the bleeding, shrinking thing, and
comfort it with the divine vision of love....

Historically speaking, it was about forty minutes before He turned to
the shrouded image behind the altar.

"Oh! Maternity!" he cried. "Mother of us all---"

And then, to those who heard Him, the supreme miracle took place.... For
it seemed now in an instant that it was no longer man who spoke, but One
who stood upon the stage of the superhuman. The curtain ripped back, as
one who stood by it tore, panting, at the strings; and there, it seemed,
face to face stood the Mother above the altar, huge, white and
protective, and the Child, one passionate incarnation of love, crying to
her from the tribune.

"Oh! Mother of us all, and Mother of Me!"

So He praised her to her face, that sublime principle of life, declared
her glories and her strength, her Immaculate Motherhood, her seven
swords of anguish driven through her heart by the passion and the
follies of her Son--He promised her great things, the recognition of her
countless children, the love and service of the unborn, the welcome of
those yet quickening within the womb. He named her the Wisdom of the
Most High, that sweetly orders all things, the Gate of Heaven, House of
Ivory, Comforter of the afflicted, Queen of the World; and, to the
delirious eyes of those who looked on her it seemed that the grave face
smiled to hear Him....

A great panting as of some monstrous life began to fill the air as the
mob swayed behind Him, and the torrential voice poured on. Waves of
emotion swept up and down; there were cries and sobs, the yelping of a
man beside himself at last, from somewhere among the crowded seats, the
crash of a bench, and another and another, and the gangways were full,
for He no longer held them passive to listen; He was rousing them to
some supreme act. The tide crawled nearer, and the faces stared no
longer at the Son but the Mother; the girl in the gallery tore at the
heavy railing, and sank down sobbing upon her knees. And above all the
voice pealed on--and the thin hands blanched to whiteness strained from
the wide and sumptuous sleeves as if to reach across the sanctuary
itself.

It was a new tale He was telling now, and all to her glory. He was from
the East, now they knew, come from some triumph. He had been hailed as
King, adored as Divine, as was meet and right--He, the humble superhuman
son of a Human Mother--who bore not a sword but peace, not a cross but a
crown. So it seemed He was saying; yet no man there knew whether He said
it or not--whether the voice proclaimed it, or their hearts asserted it.
He was on the steps of the sanctuary now, still with outstretched hands
and pouring words, and the mob rolled after him to the rumble of ten
thousand feet and the sighing of ten thousand hearts.... He was at the
altar; He was upon it. Again in one last cry, as the crowd broke against
the steps beneath, He hailed her Queen and Mother.

The end came in a moment, swift and inevitable. And for an instant,
before the girl in the gallery sank down, blind with tears, she saw the
tiny figure poised there at the knees of the huge image, beneath the
expectant hands, silent and transfigured in the blaze of light. The
Mother, it seemed, had found her Son at last.

For an instant she saw it, the soaring columns, the gilding and the
colours, the swaying heads, the tossing hands. It was a sea that heaved
before her, lights went up and down, the rose window whirled overhead,
presences filled the air, heaven flashed away, and the earth shook it
ecstasy. Then in the heavenly light, to the crash of drums, above the
screaming of the women and the battering of feet, in one thunder-peal of
worship ten thousand voices hailed Him Lord and God.




BOOK III-THE VICTORY



CHAPTER I

I

The little room where the new Pope sat reading was a model of
simplicity. Its walls were whitewashed, its roof unpolished rafters, and
its floor beaten mud. A square table stood in the centre, with a chair
beside it; a cold brazier laid for lighting, stood in the wide hearth; a
bookshelf against the wall held a dozen volumes. There were three doors,
one leading to the private oratory, one to the ante-room, and the third
to the little paved court. The south windows were shuttered, but through
the ill-fitting hinges streamed knife-blades of fiery light from the hot
Eastern day outside.

It was the time of the mid-day siesta, and except for the brisk scything
of the _cicade_ from the hill-slope behind the house, all was in deep
silence.

* * * * *

The P