work in earnest. He had been checked by
the northern risings, and still paused to see whether the embers had
been wholly quenched; and then when it was evident that the North was as
submissive as the South, began again his business of gathering in the
wealth that was waiting.

He started first in the North, under show of inflicting punishment for
the encouragement that the Religious had given to the late rebellions;
and one by one the great abbeys were tottering. Furness and Sawley had
already fallen, with Jervaulx and the other houses, and Holme Cultram
was placed under the care of a superior who could be trusted to hand
over his charge when called upon.

But up to the present not many great houses had actually fallen, except
those which were supposed to have taken a share in the revolt; and owing
to the pains taken by the Visitors to contradict the report that the
King intended to lay his hands on the whole monastic property of
England, it was even hoped by a few sanguine souls that the large
houses might yet survive.

There were hot discussions in the chapter at Lewes from time to time
during the year. The "Bishops' Book," issued by a committee of divines
and approved by the King, and containing a digest of the new Faith that
was being promulgated, arrived during the summer and was fiercely
debated; but so high ran the feeling that the Prior dropped the matter,
and the book was put away with other papers of the kind on an honourable
but little-used shelf.

The acrimony in domestic affairs began to reach its climax in October,
when the prospects of the Priory's own policy came up for discussion.

Some maintained that they were safe, and that quietness and confidence
were their best security, and these had the support of the Prior; others
declared that the best hope lay in selling the possessions of the house
at a low price to some trustworthy man who would undertake to sell then
back again at only a small profit to himself when the storm was passed.

The Prior rose in wrath when this suggestion was made.

"Would you have me betray my King?" he cried. "I tell you I will have
none of it. It is not worthy of a monk to have such thoughts."

And he sat down and would hear no more, nor speak.

There were whispered conferences after that among the others, as to what
his words meant. Surely there was nothing dishonourable in the device;
they only sought to save what was their own! And how would the King be
"betrayed" by such an action?

They had an answer a fortnight later; and it took them wholly by
surprise.

During the second week in November the Prior had held himself more
aloof than ever; only three or four of the monks, with the Sub-Prior
among them, were admitted to his cell, and they were there at all hours.
Two or three strangers too arrived on horseback, and were entertained by
the Prior in a private parlour. And then on the morning of the
fourteenth the explanation came.

When the usual business of the chapter was done, the faults confessed
and penances given, and one or two small matters settled, the Prior,
instead of rising to give the signal to go, remained in his chair, his
head bent on to his hand.

It was a dark morning, heavy and lowering; and from where Chris sat at
the lower end of the great chamber he could scarcely make out the
features of those who sat under the high window at the east; but as soon
as the Prior lifted his face and spoke, he knew by that tense strain of
the voice that something impended.

"There is another matter," said the Prior; and paused again.

For a moment there was complete silence. The Sub-Prior leant a little
forward and was on the point of speaking, when his superior lifted his
head again and straightened himself in his chair.

"It is this," he said, and his voice rang hard and defiant, "it is this.
It is useless to think we can save ourselves. We are under suspicion,
and worse than suspicion. I have hoped, and prayed, and striven to know
God's will; and I have talked with my Lord Cromwell not once or twice,
but often. And it is useless to resist any further."

His voice cracked with misery; but Chris saw him grip the bosses of his
chair-arms in an effort for self-control. His own heart began to sicken;
this was not frightened raving such as he had listened to before; it was
the speech of one who had been driven into decision, as a rat into a
corner.

"I have talked with the Sub-Prior, and others; and they think with me in
this. I have kept it back from the rest, that they might serve God in
peace so long as was possible. But now I must tell you all, my sons,
that we must leave this place."

There was a hush of terrible tension. The monks had known that they were
threatened; they could not think otherwise with the news that came from
all parts, but they had not known that catastrophe was so imminent. An
old monk opposite Chris began to moan and mutter; but the Prior went on
immediately.

"At least I think that we must leave. It may be otherwise, if God has
pity on us; I do not know; but we must be ready to leave, if it be His
will, and,--and to say so."

He was speaking in abrupt se