ily
so."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a little orchard that the nuns had sold in the previous year;
and Ralph asked for an explanation.

"It came from the Kingsford family," she said serenely; "it was useless
to us."

"But--" began the inquisitor.

"We needed some new vestments," she went on. "You will understand, Mr.
Torridon, that it was necessary for for us to sell it. We are not rich
at all."

There was nothing else that called for comment; except the manner in
which the books were kept. Ralph suggested some other method.

"Dame Agnes has her own ways," said the old lady. "We must not disturb
her."

And Dame Agnes assumed a profound and financial air on the other side of
the table.

Presently Ralph put a mark in the inventory against a "cope of gold
bawdekin," and requested that it might be brought.

The sister-sacristan rose at a word from the Abbess and went out,
returning presently with the vestment. She unfolded the coverings and
spread it out on the table before Ralph.

It was a magnificent piece of work, of shimmering gold, with orphreys
embroidered with arms; and she stroked out its folds with obvious pride.

"These are Warham's arms," observed the Abbess. "You know them, Mr.
Torridon? We worked these the month before his death."

Ralph nodded briskly.

"Will you kindly leave it here, Reverend Mother," he said. "I wish to
see it again presently."

The Abbess gave no hint of discomposure, but signed to the sacristan to
place it over a chair at one side.

There were a couple of other things that Ralph presently caused to be
fetched and laid aside--a precious mitre with a couple of cameos in
front, and bordered with emeralds, and a censer with silver filigree
work.

Then came a more difficult business.

"I wish to see the nuns one by one, Reverend Mother," he said. "I must
ask you to withdraw."

The Abbess gave him a quick look, and then rose.

"Very well, sir, I will send them in." And she went out with Mr. Morris
behind her.

They came in one by one, and sat down before the table, with downcast
eyes, and hands hidden beneath their scapulars; and all told the same
tale, except one. They had nothing to complain of; they were happy; the
Rule was carefully observed; there were no scandals to be revealed; they
asked nothing but to be left in peace. But there was one who came in
nervously and anxiously towards the end, a woman with quick black eyes,
who glanced up and down and at the door as she sat down. Ralph put the
usual questions.

"I wish to be released, sir," she said. "I am weary of the life, and
the--" she stopped and glanced swiftly up again at the commissioner.

"Well?" said Ralph.

"The papistical ways," she said.

Ralph felt a sudden distrust of the woman; but he hardened his heart. He
set a mark opposite her name; she had been professed ten years, he saw
by the list.

"Very well," he said; "I will tell my Lady Abbess." She still hesitated
a moment.

"There will be a provision for me?" she asked

"There will be a provision," said Ralph a little grimly. He was
authorised to offer in such cases a secular dress and a sum of five
shillings.

Lastly came in Margaret herself.

Ralph hardly knew her. He had been unable to distinguish her at mass,
and even now as she faced him in her black habit and white head-dress it
was hard to be certain of her identity. But memory and sight were
gradually reconciled; he remembered her delicate eyebrows and thin
straight lips; and when she spoke he knew her voice.

They talked a minute or two about their home; but Ralph did not dare to
say too much, considering what he had yet to say.

"I must ask you the questions," he said at last, smiling at her.

She looked up at him nervously, and dropped her eyes once more.

She nodded or shook her head in silence at each enquiry, until at last
one bearing upon the morals of the house came up; then she looked
swiftly up once more, and Ralph saw that her grey eyes were terrified.

"You must tell me," he said; and put the question again.

"I do not know what you mean," she answered, staring at him bewildered.

Ralph went on immediately to the next.

At last he reached the crisis.

"Margaret," he said, "I have something to tell you." He stopped and
began to play with his pen. He had seldom felt so embarrassed as now in
the presence of this shy sister of his of whom he knew so little. He
could not look at her.

"Margaret, you know, you--you are under age. The King's Grace has
ordered that all under twenty years of age are to leave their convents."

There was a dead silence.

Ralph was enraged with his own weakness. He had begun the morning's work
with such determination; but the strange sweet atmosphere of the house,
the file of women coming in one by one with their air of innocence and
defencelessness had affected him. In spite of himself his religious side
had asserted itself, and he found himself almost tremulous now.

He made a great effort at self-repression, and looked up with hard
bright eyes at his sister.

"There must be no crying or rebellion," he said. "You must come with me
to-morrow. I shall send you to Ove