hich was high and vaulted with a frieze of
grotesque animals and foliage running round it. There were a few
servants there, and one or two friends of the Prior waiting at the porch
as they arrived; and one of them, a monk himself from the cell at
Farley, stepped up to the Prior's stirrup and whispered to him.

Chris heard an exclamation and a sharp indrawing of breath, but was too
well trained to ask; so he too dismounted and followed the others into
the hall, leaving his beast in the hands of a servant.

The Prior was already standing by the monk at the upper end, questioning
him closely, and glancing nervously this way and that.

"To-day?" he asked sharply, and looked at the other horrified.

The monk nodded, pale-faced and anxious, his lower lip sucked in.

The Prior turned to Chris.

"They have suffered to-day," he said.

News had reached Lewes nearly a week before that the Carthusians had
been condemned, for refusing to acknowledge the King as head of the
English Church, but it had been scarcely possible to believe that the
sentence would be carried out, and Chris felt the blood beat in his
temples and his lips turn suddenly dry as he heard the news.

"I was there, my Lord Prior," said the monk.

He was a middle-aged man, genial and plump, but his face was white and
anxious now, and his mouth worked. "They were hanged in their habits,"
he went on. "Prior Houghton was the first despatched;" and he added a
terrible detail or two.

"Will you see the place, my Lord Prior?" he said, "You can ride there.
Your palfrey is still at the door."

Prior Robert Crowham looked at him a moment with pursed lips; and then
shook his head violently.

"No, no," he said. "I--I must see to the house." The monk looked at
Chris.

"May I go, my Lord Prior?" he asked.

The Prior stared at him a moment, in a desperate effort to fix his
attention; then nodded sharply and wheeled round to the door that led to
the upper rooms.

"Mother of God!" he said. "Mother of God!" and went out.

Chris went through with the strange priest, down the hall and out into
the porch again. The others were standing there, fearful and whispering,
and opened out to let the two monks pass through.

Chris had been tired and hot when he arrived, but he was conscious now
of no sensation but of an overmastering desire to see the place; he
passed straight by his horse that still stood with a servant at his
head, and turned up instinctively toward the river.

The monk called after him.

"There, there," he cried, "not so fast--we have plenty of time."

They took a wherry at the stairs and pushed out with the stream. The
waterman was a merry-looking man who spoke no word but whistled to
himself cheerfully as he laid himself to the oars, and the boat began to
move slantingly across the flowing tide. He looked at the monks now and
again; but Chris was seated, staring out with eyes that saw nothing down
the broad stream away to where the cathedral rose gigantic and graceful
on the other side. It was the first time he had been in London since a
couple of years before his profession, but the splendour and strength of
the city was nothing to him now. It only had one significance to his
mind, and that that it had been this day the scene of a martyrdom. His
mind that had so long lived in the inner world, moving among
supernatural things, was struggling desperately to adjust itself.

Once or twice his lips moved, and his hands clenched themselves under
his scapular; but he saw and heard nothing; and did not even turn his
head when a barge swept past them, and a richly dressed man leaned from
the stem and shouted something mockingly. The other monk looked
nervously and deprecatingly up, for he heard the taunting threat across
the water that the Carthusians were a good riddance, and that there
would be more to follow.

They landed at the Blackfriars stairs, paid the man, who was still
whistling as he took the money, and passed up by the little stream that
flowed into the river, striking off to the left presently, and leaving
the city behind them. They were soon out again on the long straight road
that led to Tyburn, for Chris walked desperately fast, paying little
heed to his companion except at the corners when he had to wait to know
the way; and presently Tyburn-gate began to raise its head high against
the sky.

Once the strange monk, whose name Chris had not even troubled to ask,
plucked him by his hanging sleeve.

"The hurdles came along here," he said; and Chris looked at him vacantly
as if he did not understand.

Then they were under Tyburn-gate, and the clump of elms stood before
them.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a wide open space, dusty now and trampled.

What grass there had been in patches by the two little streams that
flowed together here, was crushed and flat under foot. The elms cast
long shadows from the west, and birds were chirping in the branches;
there was a group or two of people here and there looking curiously
about them. A man's voice came across the open space, explaining; and
his arm rose and wheeled and pointed and paused--three or four childr