. As Mr. Carleton had
said, she had never been faced before; she had been accustomed to regard
devoutness as incompatible with strong character; she had never been
resisted. Both her husband and children had thought to conquer by
yielding; it was easier to do so, and appeared more Christian; and she
herself, like Ralph, was only provoked further by passivity. And now she
had met one of the old school, who was as ready in the use of worldly
weapons as herself; she had been ignored and pricked alternately, and
with astonishing grace too, by one who was certainly of that tone of
mind that she had gradually learnt to despise and hate.

Chris saw this before his father; but he saw too that the conquest was
not yet complete. His mother had been cowed with respect, as a dog that
is broken in; she had not yet been melted with love. He had spoken to
Mary the day before the Maxwells' departure, and tried to put this into
words; and Mary had seen where the opening for love lay, through which
the work could be done; and the result had been the interview with
Beatrice, and the mention of Ralph's name. But Mary had not a notion how
Beatrice could act; she only saw that Ralph was the one chink in her
mother's armour, and she left it to this girl who had been so adroit up
to the present, to find how to pierce it.

Sir James had given up trying to understand the situation. He had for so
long regarded his wife as an irreconcilable that he hoped for nothing
better than to be able to keep her pacified; anything in the nature of a
conversion seemed an idle dream. But he had noticed the change in her
manner, and wondered what it meant; he hoped that the pendulum had not
swung too far, and that it was not she who was being bullied now by
this imperious girl from town.

He said a word to Mr. Carleton one day about it, as they walked in the
garden.

"Father," he said, "I am puzzled. What has come to my wife? Have you not
noticed how she has not spoken for three days. Do you think she dislikes
Mistress Atherton. If I thought that--"

"No, sir," said the priest. "I do not think it is that. I think it is
the other way about. She did dislike her--but not now."

"You do not think, Mistress Atherton is--is a little--discourteous and
sharp sometimes. I have wondered whether that was so. Chris thinks not,
however."

"Neither do I, sir. I think--I think it is all very well as it is. I
hope Mistress Atherton is to stay yet a while."

"She speaks of going in a week or two," said the old man. "She has been
here six weeks now."

"I hope not," said the priest, "since you have asked my opinion, sir."

Sir James sighed, looked at the other, and then left him, to search for
his wife and see if she wanted him. He was feeling a little sorry for
her.

       *       *       *       *       *

A week later the truth began to come out, and Beatrice had the
opportunity for which she was waiting.

They were all gathered before the hall-fire expecting supper; the
painted windows had died with the daylight, and the deep tones of the
woodwork in gallery and floor and walls had crept out from the gloom
into the dancing flare of the fire and the steady glow of the sconces.
The weather had broken a day or two before; all the afternoon sheets of
rain had swept across the fields and gardens, and heavy cheerless
clouds marched over the sky. The wind was shrilling now against the
north side of the hall, and one window dripped a little inside on to the
matting below it. The supper-table shone with silver and crockery, and
the napkins by each place; and the door from the kitchen was set wide
for the passage of the servants, one of whom waited discreetly in the
opening for the coming of the lady of the house. They were all there but
she; and the minutes went by and she did not come.

Sir James turned enquiringly as the door from the court opened, but it
was only a wet shivering dog who had nosed it open, and now crept
deprecatingly towards the blaze.

"You poor beast," said Beatrice, drawing her skirts aside. "Take my
place," and she stepped away to allow him to come. He looked gratefully
up, wagged his rat-tail, and lay down comfortably at the edge of the
tiles.

"My wife is very late," said Sir James. "Chris--"

He stopped as footsteps sounded in the flagged passage leading from the
living rooms; and the next moment the door was flung open, and a woman
ran forward with outstretched hands.

"O! mon Dieu, mon Dieu!" she cried. "My lady is ill. Come, sir, come!"




CHAPTER IV

THE ELDER SON


Ralph had prospered exceedingly since his return from the Sussex
Visitation. He had been sent on mission after mission by Cromwell, who
had learnt at last how wholly he could be trusted; and with each success
his reputation increased. It seemed to Cromwell that his man was more
whole-hearted than he had been at first; and when he was told abruptly
by Ralph that his relations with Mistress Atherton had come to an end,
the politician was not slow to connect cause and effect. He had always
regretted the friendship; it seemed to him that his servant's character
was sure to be weakened by his alliance 