 meals and in the parlour
and chapel, but seldom at other times. Ralph was almost invisible; and
silent when he appeared. There were no explanations on either side; he
behaved with a kind of distant courtesy to the others, answered their
questions, volunteered a word or two sometimes; made himself useful in
small ways as regarded giving orders to the servants, inspecting the
funeral standard and scutcheons, and making one or two arrangements
which fell to him naturally; and went out by himself on horseback or on
foot during the afternoon. His contempt seemed to have fallen from him;
he was as courteous to Chris as to the others; but no word was spoken on
either side as regarded either the past and the great gulf that
separated him from the others, or the future relations between him and
his home.

The funeral took place three days after death, on the Saturday morning;
a requiem was sung in the presence of the body in the parish church; and
Beatrice sat with the mourners in the Torridon chapel behind the black
hearse set with lights, before the open vault in the centre of the
pavement. Ralph sat two places beyond her, with Sir James between; and
she was again vividly conscious of his presence, of his movements as he
knelt and sat; and again she wondered what all the solemn ceremonies
meant to him, the yellow candles, the black vestments, the mysterious
hallowing of the body with incense and water--counteracting, as it were,
with fragrance and brightness, the corruption and darkness of the grave.

She walked back with Margaret, who clung to her now, almost desperately,
finding in her sane serenity an antidote to her own remorse; and as she
walked through the garden and across the moat, with Nicholas and Mary
coming behind, she watched the three men going in front, Sir James in
the middle, the monk on his left, and the slow-stepping Ralph on his
right, and marvelled at the grim acting.

There they went, the father and his two sons, side by side in courteous
silence--she noticed Ralph step forward to lift the latch of the
garden-gate for the others to pass through--and between them lay an
impassable gulf; she found herself wondering whether the other gulf that
they had looked into half an hour before were so deep or wide.

She was out again with Sir James alone in the evening before supper, and
learnt from him then that Ralph was to stay till Monday.

"He has not spoken to me of returning again," said the old man, "Of
course it is impossible. Do you not think so, Mistress Atherton."

"It is impossible," she said. "What good would be served?"

"What good?" repeated the other.

The evening was falling swiftly, layer on layer of twilight, as they
turned to come back to the house. The steeple of the church rose up on
their left, slender and ghostly against the yellow sky, out of the black
yews and cypresses that lay banked below it. They stopped and looked at
it a moment, as it aspired to heaven from the bones that lay about its
base, like an eternal resurrection wrought in stone. There all about it
were the mortal and the dead; the stones and iron slabs leaned, as they
knew, in hundreds about the grass; and round them again stood the roofs,
beginning now to kindle under the eaves, where the living slept and ate.
There was a rumbling of heavy carts somewhere beyond the village, a
crack or two of a whip, the barking of a dog.

Then they turned again and went up to the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the chaplain who was late this evening for supper. The others
waited a few minutes by the fire, but there was no sign of him. A
servant was sent up to his room and came back to report that he had
changed his cassock and gone out; a boy had come from the parish-priest,
said the man, ten minutes before, and Mr. Carleton had probably been
sent for.

They waited yet five minutes, but the priest did not appear, and they
sat down. Supper was nearly over before before he came. He came in by
the side-door from the court, splashed with mud, and looking pale and
concerned. He went straight up to Sir James.

"May I speak with you, sir?" he said.

The old man got up at once, and went down the hall with him.

The rest waited, expecting them to return, but there was no sign of
them; and Ralph at last rose and led the way to the oak-parlour. As they
passed the door of Sir James's room they heard the sound of voices
within.

Conversation was a very difficult matter that evening. Ralph had behaved
with considerable grace and tact, but Nicholas had not responded. Ever
since his arrival on the day before the funeral he had eyed Ralph like a
strange dog intruded into a house; Mary had hovered round her husband,
watchful and anxious, stepping hastily into gaps in the conversation,
sliding in a sentence or two as Nicholas licked his lips in preparation
for a snarl; once even putting her hand swiftly on his and drowning a
growl with a word of her own. Ralph had been wonderfully
self-controlled; only once had Beatrice seen him show his teeth for a
moment as his brother-in-law had scowled more plainly than usual.

The atmosphere was charg