defence; and he looked now at
Ralph with a grim approval.

"I believe you are right, Mr. Torridon. I will think, over it."

A week later the blow fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cromwell looked up at him one Sunday evening as he came into the room,
with his papers, and without any greeting spoke at once.

"I wish you to go to Lambeth House to-morrow morning early, Mr.
Torridon. Master More is to be there to have the Oath of Succession
tendered to him with the others. Do your best to persuade him to take
it; be his true friend."

A little grim amusement shone in his eyes as he spoke. Ralph looked at
him a moment.

"I mean it, Mr. Torridon: do your best. I wish him to think you his
friend."

       *       *       *       *       *

As Ralph went across the Thames in a wherry the following morning, he
was still thinking out the situation. Apparently Cromwell wished to keep
in friendly touch with More; and this now, of course, was only possible
through Ralph, and would have been impossible if the latter's evidence
had been used, or were going to be used. It was a relief to him to know
that the consummation of his treachery was postponed at least for the
present; (but he would not have called it treachery).

As Lambeth towers began to loom ahead, Ralph took out Beatrice's letter
that had come in answer to his own a few days before, and ran his eyes
over it. It was a line of passionate thanks and blessing. Surely he had
reached her hidden heart at last. He put the letter back in his inner
pocket, just before he stepped ashore. It no doubt would be a useful
evidence of his own sincerity in his interview with More.

There was a great crowd in the court as he passed through, for many were
being called to take the oath, which, however, was not made strictly
legal until the following Second Act in the autumn. Several carriages
were drawn up near the house door, and among them Ralph recognised the
liveries of his master and of Lord Chancellor Audley. A number of horses
and mules too were tethered to rings in the wall on the other side with
grooms beside them, and ecclesiastics and secretaries were coming and
going, disputing in groups, calling to one another, in the pleasant
April sunshine.

On enquiry he found that the Commissioners were sitting in one of the
downstair parlours; but one of Cromwell's servants at the door told him
that he was not to go in there, but that Mr. More was upstairs by
himself, and that if he pleased he would show him the way.

It was an old room looking on to the garden, scantily furnished, with a
patch of carpet by the window and a table and chair set upon it. More
turned round from the window-seat on which he was kneeling to look out,
and smiled genially as Ralph heard the servant close the door.

"Why, Mr. Torridon, are you in trouble too? This is the detention-room
whither I am sent to consider myself."

He led Ralph, still holding his hand, to the window-seat, where he
leaned again looking eagerly into the garden.

"There go the good boys," he said, "to and fro in the playground; and
here sit I. I suppose I have nothing but the rod to look for."

Ralph felt a little awkward in the presence of this gaiety; and for a
minute or two leaned out beside More, staring mechanically at the
figures that passed up and down. He had expected almost to find him at
his prayers, or at least thoughtfully considering himself.

More commented agreeably on the passers-by.

"Dr. Wilson was here a moment ago; but he is off now, with a man on
either side. He too is a naughty fellow like myself, and will not listen
to reason. There is the Vicar of Croydon, good man, coming out of the
buttery wiping his mouth."

Ralph looked down at the priest's flushed excited face; he was talking
with a kind of reckless gaiety to a friend who walked beside him.

"He was sad enough just now," went on the other, "while he was still
obstinate; but his master hath patted him on the head now and given him
cake and wine. He was calling out for a drink just now (which he hath
got, I see) either for gladness or for dryness, or else that we might
know _quod ille notus erat pontifici_."

Dr. Latimer passed presently, his arms on either side flung round a
priest's neck; he too was talking volubly and laughing; and the skirts
of his habit wagged behind him.

"He is in high feather," said More, "and I have no doubt that his
conscience is as clear as his eyes. Come, Mr. Torridon; sit you down.
What have you come for?"

Ralph sat back on the window-seat with his back to the light, and his
hat between his knees.

"I came to see you, sir; I have not been to the Commissioners. I heard
you were here."

"Why, yes," said More, "here I am."

"I came to see if I could be of any use to you, Master More; I know a
friend's face is a good councillor sometimes, even though that friend be
a fool."

More patted him softly on the knee.

"No fool," he said, "far from it."

He looked at him so oddly that Ralph feared that he suspected him; so he
made haste to bring out Beatrice's letter.

"Mistress Atherton has written me this," he said. "I was able to do her