val of his father and Mary
there had had exactly the opposite effect to that which they hoped, and
Ralph had turned Margaret out of the convent simply because he could not
bear that they should think that he could be frightened from his
purpose.

As he had ridden off on that October morning, leaving Margaret standing
outside with her cloak over her arm he had had a very sharp suspicion
that she would be received back again; but he had not felt himself
strong enough to take any further steps; so he contented himself with
sending in his report to Dr. Layton, knowing well that heavy punishment
would fall on the convent if it was discovered that the Abbess had
disobeyed the Visitors' injunctions.

Then for a month or so he had ridden about the county, carrying off
spoils, appointing new officials, and doing the other duties assigned to
him; he was offered bribes again and again by superiors of Religious
Houses, but unlike his fellow-Visitors always refused them, and fell the
more hardly on those that offered them; he turned out numbers of young
Religious and released elder ones who desired it, and by the time that
he reached Lewes was fairly practised in the duties of his position.

But the thought of the consequences of his action with regard to his
future seldom left him. He had alienated his family, and perhaps
Beatrice. As he rode once through Cuckfield, and caught a glimpse of the
woods above Overfield, glorious in their autumn livery, he wondered
whether he would ever find himself at home there again. It was a good
deal to give up; but he comforted himself with the thought of his own
career, and with the pleasant prospect of possessing some such house in
his own right when the work that he now understood had been
accomplished, and the monastic buildings were empty of occupants.

He had received one letter, to his surprise, from his mother; that was
brought to him by a messenger in one of the houses where he stayed. It
informed him that he had the writer's approval, and that she was
thankful to have one son at least who was a man, and described further
how his father and Mary had come back, and without Margaret, and that
she supposed that the Abbess of Rusper had taken her back.

"Go on, my son," she ended, "it will be all well. You cannot come home,
I know, while your father is in his present mind; but it is a dull place
and you lose nothing. When you are married it will be different. Mr.
Carleton is very tiresome, but it does not matter."

Ralph smiled to himself as he thought of the life that must now be
proceeding at his home.

He had written once to Beatrice, in a rather tentative tone, assuring
her that he was doing his best to be just and merciful, and professing
to take it for granted that she knew how to discount any exaggerated
stories of the Visitors' doings that might come to her ears. But he had
received no answer, and indeed had told her that he did not expect one,
for he was continually on the move and could give no fixed address.

As he came up over the downs above Lewes he was conscious of a keen
excitement; this would be the biggest work he had undertaken, and it had
the additional zest of being a means of annoying his brother who had
provoked him so often. Since his quarrel with Chris in his own rooms in
the summer he had retained an angry contempt towards him. Chris had been
insolent and theatrical, he told himself, and had thrown off all claims
to tenderness, and Ralph's feelings towards him were not improved by the
information given him by one of his men that his brother had been
present at the scene at Rusper, no doubt summoned there by Morris, who
had proved such a desperate traitor to his master by slipping off to
Overfield on the morning of the Sunday.

Ralph was very much puzzled at first by Morris's behaviour; the man had
always been respectful and obedient, but it was now evident to him that
he had been half-hearted all along, and still retained a superstitious
reverence for ecclesiastical things and persons; and although it was
very inconvenient and tiresome to lose him, yet it was better to be
inadequately than treacherously served.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lewes Priory was a magnificent sight as Ralph came up on to the top of
the last shoulder below Mount Harry. The town lay below him in the deep,
cup-like hollow, piled house above house along the sides. Beyond it in
the evening light, against the rich autumn fields and the gleam of
water, towered up the tall church with the monastic buildings nestling
behind.

The thought crossed his mind that it would do very well for himself;
the town was conveniently placed between London and the sea, within a
day's ride from either; there would be shops and company there, and the
priory itself would be a dignified and suitable house, when it had been
properly re-arranged. The only drawback would be Beatrice's
scrupulousness; but he had little doubt that ultimately that could be
overcome. It would be ridiculous for a single girl to set herself up
against the conviction of a country, and refuse to avail herself of the
advantages of a refo