the Cardinal, still without
lifting his eyes.

"Certainly, your Eminence, if nothing interferes; but how can we
be sure of that? I know the Government means business."

"It's half an hour since the last message," observed the General.

Lord Southminster got up suddenly and went to the lobby-door. As he
went the door into the parlours opened and his mother looked in.

"Any more news, my son?"

"No, mother. I was just going to ask."

The old lady came forward as her son went out--a splendid old
creature in her lace and jewels--active still and upright in
spite of her years. She made a little gesture as the men offered
to move, and went and leaned by the old-fashioned open
fire-place, such as her husband had put in at the restoration
throughout the house.

"Your Eminence, can you reassure us?" she said, smiling.

The Cardinal, too, smiled as he turned in his chair.

"I am confident the Bill will pass," he said. "But I do not know
yet what the price will be."

"Your Eminence means in England? Or elsewhere?" asked the
chaplain abruptly.

"In England and elsewhere, father."

Old Lady Jane Morpeth appeared at this moment, and the two
ladies sat down on the high oak settle that screened the fire
from the window. They showed no signs of anxiety; but Monsignor
perceived that their return at all to this room just now was
significant. Simultaneously the young man came in again, closing
the door behind him.

"Our enquiries are not answered," he said sharply. "We are trying
to get into touch with another office."

No one spoke for a minute. Even to Monsignor, who still found it
hard always to understand the communication-system of the time,
it was obvious that something must have happened. He knew that
Southminster Castle had been put into wireless touch with the
great Marconi office in Parliament Square, and that a failure to
be answered meant that something unexpected had happened. But it
was entirely impossible to conjecture for certain what this
something might be.

"That is serious?" remarked Lady Southminster, without
moving a muscle.

"I suppose so," said her son, and sat down again.

Then the man who was looking out of the window turned and came
back into the room, latching the shutters and putting the curtains
into place.

"Well, Jack?" asked the General.

"I have counted eight or nine volors," he said; "usually there
are only two at this time. I went to look for them."

"Which way?"

"Three this way and five the other."

Monsignor did not dare to ask for an interpretation. But he was aware
that the air of tenseness in the room tightened up still further.

The General got up.

"Southminster," he said, "I think I'll take a stroll outside if I
may. One might see something, you know."

"Go up to the keep, if you like. There's a covered path most of
the way up. There's a look-out there, you know. I had one set in
case the wireless failed. At any rate, they may see the rockets
farther along the coast."

Monsignor too stood up. His restlessness increased every moment,
although he scarcely knew why.

"May I come with you too?" he said. "Will your Eminence excuse me?"



(II)

The two said nothing as they went out through the dimly lighted
hall. Overhead hung the old banners in the high wooden roof; a
great fire blazed on the hearth; and under the musician's gallery
at the farther end they saw the bright little window behind which
sat the secretary.

They stopped here and peered in.

He was seated with his back to them before an instrument not
altogether unlike an old-fashioned organ. A long row of black
keys was in front of him; and half a dozen stops protruded on
either side. Before him, in the front, a glass panel protected
some kind of white sheet; and as the priest looked in he could
see a movement as of small bluish sparks playing upon this. He
had long ago made up his mind not to attempt to understand modern
machinery; and he had no kind of idea what all this meant, beyond
a guess that the keys were for sending messages, and the white
sheet for receiving them.

"Any news?" said the General suddenly.

The secretary did not move or answer. His hands were before him,
hidden, and he appeared entirely absorbed.

It must have been a minute before he turned round, drawing out as
he did so from before him a slip of paper like those he had
already brought in.

"This is from Rye, sir," he said shortly. "They too have lost
communication with Parliament Square. That is all, sir. I must
take this in at once."

The two passed on, still without speaking; and it was not until
they were going slowly up the long covered staircase that ran
inside the skirting wall that connected the keep with the more
modern part of the castle that Monsignor began----

"I'm very ignorant," he said. "Can you tell me the
possibilities?"

The General paused before answering.

"Well," he said, "the worst possibility is a riot, engineered by
the Socialists. If that is successful, it means a certain delay
of at least several years; and, at the worst, it means that the
Socialists will increase enormously throughout Europe. And then
anything may happen."

"But I thought tha