s papers, at which he was writing when Ralph was admitted by the
warder.

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Torridon," he said, "I knew you would
not forget an old friend, even though he could not take your counsel. I
daresay you have come to give it me again, however."

"If I thought you would take it," began Ralph.

"But I will not," said More smiling, "no more than before. Sit down, Mr.
Torridon."

Ralph had come at Cromwell's suggestion, and with a very great
willingness of his own, too. He knew he could not please Beatrice more
than by visiting her friend, and he himself was pleased and amused to
think that he could serve his master's interests from one side and his
own from another by one action.

He talked a little about the oath again, and mentioned how many had
taken it during the last week or two.

"I am pleased that they can do it with a good conscience," observed
More. "And now let us talk of other matters. If I would not do it for my
daughter's sake, who begged me, I would not do it for the sake of both
the Houses of Parliament, nor even, dear Mr. Torridon, for yours and
Master Cromwell's."

Ralph saw that it was of no use, and began to speak of other things. He
gave him news of Chelsea.

"They are not very merry there," he said, "and I hardly suppose you
would wish them to be."

"Why not?" cried More, with a beaming face, "I am merry enough. I would
not be a monk; so God hath compelled me to be one, and treats me as one
of His own spoilt children. He setteth me on His lap and dandleth me. I
have never been so happy."

He told Ralph presently that his chief sorrow was that he could not go
to mass or receive the sacraments. The Lieutenant, Sir Edward
Walsingham, who had been his friend, had told him that he would very
gladly have given him liberties of this kind, but that he dared not, for
fear of the King's displeasure.

"But I told him," said More, "not to trouble himself that I liked his
cheer well enough as it was, and if ever I did not he was to put me out
of his doors."

After a little more talk he showed Ralph what he was writing. It was a
treatise called a "Dialogue of Comfort against Tribulation."

"It is to persuade myself," he said, "that I am no more a prisoner than
I was before; I know I am, but sometimes forget it. We are all God's
prisoners."

Ralph glanced down the page just written and was astonished at its good
humour.

"Some prisoner of another gaol," he read, "singeth, danceth in his two
fetters, and feareth not his feet for stumbling at a stone; while God's
prisoner, that hath but his one foot fettered by the gout, lieth
groaning on a couch, and quaketh and crieth out if he fear there would
fall on his foot no more than a cushion."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph went straight up the river from the Tower to Chelsea to take them
news of the prisoner, and was silent and moody as he went. He had been
half touched and half enraged by More's bearing--touched by his
simplicity and cheerfulness and enraged by his confidence in a bad
cause.

Mrs. Alice More behaved as usual when he got there: she had a genius for
the obvious; commented on the weariness of living in one room, the
distress at the thought that one was fastened in at the will of another;
deplored the plainness of the prison fare, and the folly of her husband
in refusing an oath that she herself and her children and the vast
majority of the prominent persons in England had found so simple in
accepting. She left nothing unsaid.

Finally, she apologized for the plainness of her dress.

"You must think me a slattern, Mr. Torridon, but I cannot help it. I
have not the heart nor the means, now that my man is in prison, to do
better."

And her solemn eyes filled with tears.

When he had given the news to the family he went aside from the group in
the garden to where Beatrice Atherton was sitting below the Jesu tree,
with work on her lap.

He had noticed as he talked that she was sitting there, and had raised
his voice for her benefit. He fancied, and with a pleasure at the
delicate instinct, that she did not wish to appear as intimately
interested in the news from the Tower as those who had a better right to
be. He was always detecting now faint shades in her character, as he
knew her better, that charmed and delighted him.

She was doing some mending, and only glanced up and down again without
ceasing or moving, as Ralph stood by her.

"I thought you never used the needle," he began in a moment.

"It is never too late to mend," she said, without the faintest movement.

Ralph felt again an odd prick of happiness. It gave him a distinct
thrill of delight that she would make such an answer and so swiftly; and
at such a time, when tragedy was round her and in her heart, for he knew
how much she loved the man from whom he had just come.

He sat down on the garden chair opposite, and watched her fingers and
the movements of her wrist as she passed the needle in and out, and
neither spoke again till the others had dispersed.

"You heard all I said?" said Ralph at last.

She bowed her head without answering.

"Shall I go and bring you n