e King."

"Why do you come?"

A gabble of fierce tongues broke out; Chris pressed up to Dom Anthony's
back, and looked out. The space was very narrow, and he could not see
much more than a man's leg across a saddle, the brown shoulder of a
horse in front, and a smoky haze beyond and over the horse's back. The
leg shifted a little as he watched, as if the rider turned; and then
again the voice pealed out above the tumult.

"Will you open, sir, for the last time?"

"I will not," shouted the monk through the grill. "You are nothing
but--" then he dashed the shutter into its place as a stick struck
fiercely at the bars.

"Back to the cloister," he said.

The roar outside was tremendous as the six went back across the empty
court; but it fell to a sinister silence as an order or two was shouted
outside; and then again swelled with an excited note in it, as the first
crash sounded on the panels.

Chris looked at his father as they stood again on the steps fifty yards
away. The old man was standing rigid, his hands at his sides, staring
out towards the arch of the gateway that now thundered like a drum; and
his lips were moving. Once he caught his breath as a voice shouted above
the din outside, and half turned to his son, his hand uplifted as if for
silence. Then again the voice pealed, and Sir James faced round and
stared into Chris's eyes. But neither spoke a word.

Dom Anthony, who was standing a yard or two in front, turned presently
as the sound of splintering began to be mingled with the reverberations,
and came towards them. His square, full face was steady and alert, and
he spoke with a sharp decision.

"You and Sir Nicholas, sir, had best be within. My place will be here;
they will be in immediately."

His words were perfectly distinct here in the open air in spite of the
uproar from the gate.

There was an indignant burst from the young squire.

"No, no, father; I shall not stir from here."

The monk looked at him; but said no more and turned round.

A sedate voice spoke from the dark doorway behind.

"John and I have fetched out a table or two, father; we can brace this
door--"

Dom Anthony turned again.

"We shall not resist further," he said.

Then they were silent, for they were helpless. There was nothing to be
done but to stand there and listen to the din, to the crash that
splintered more every moment in the cracked woodwork, and to watch the
high wall and turret solemn and strong against the stars, and bright
here and there at the edges with the light from the torches beneath. The
guest-house opposite them was dark, except for one window in the upper
floor that glowed and faded with the light of the fire that had been
kindled within an hour or two before.

Sir James took his son suddenly by the arm.

"And you, Chris--" he said.

"I shall stay here, father."

There was a rending thunder from the gate; the wicket reeled in and
fell, and in a moment through the flimsy opening had sprung the figure
of a man. They could see him plainly as he stood there in the light of
the torches, a tall upright figure, a feathered hat on his head, and a
riding cane in his hand.

The noise was indescribable outside as men fought to get through; there
was one scream of pain, the plunging of a horse, and then a loud steady
roar drowning all else.

The oblong patch of light was darkened immediately, as another man
sprang through, and then another and another; then a pause--then the
bright flare of a torch shone in the opening; and a moment later a
fellow carrying a flambeau had made his way through.

The whole space under the arch was now illuminated. Overhead the plain
mouldings shone out and faded as the torch swayed; every brick of the
walls was visible, and the studs and bars of the huge doors.

Chris had sprung forward by an uncontrollable impulse as the wicket fell
in; and the two monks were now standing motionless on the floor of the
court, side by side, in their black habits and scapulars, hooded and
girded, with the two gentlemen and the servants on the steps behind.

Chris saw the leaders come together under the arch, as the whole gate
began to groan and bulge under the pressure of the crowd; and a moment
later he caught the flash of steel as the long rapiers whisked out.

Then above the baying he heard a fierce authoritative voice scream out
an order, and saw that one of the gentlemen in front was at the door,
his rapier protruded before him; and understood the man[oe]uvre. It was
necessary that the mad crowd should be kept back.

The tumult died and became a murmur; and then one by one a file of
figures came through. In the hand of each was an instrument of some
kind, a pick or a bludgeon; and it was evident that it was these who had
broken in the gate.

Chris counted them mechanically as they streamed through. There seemed
to be a dozen or so.

Then again the man who had guarded the door as they came through slipped
back through the opening; and they heard his voice beginning to harangue
the mob.

But a moment later they had ceased to regard him; for from the archway,
with the torch-bearer beside him, advanced the tall man 