e new to him, though he
had heard them a hundred times, and used them fifty; and while he
weighed them, another took up the tale; told a scandalous story or two,
and asked how men who lived such lives as these which he related, could
be examples of chastity.

Once more the little old man burst into the fray, and waving his pot in
an access of religious enthusiasm, rebuked the last speaker for his
readiness to pick up dirt, and himself instanced five or six Religious
known to him, whose lives were no less spotless than his own.

Again Ralph interposed in his slow voice, and told them that that too
was not the point at issue. The question was not as to whether here and
there monks lived good lives or bad, for no one was compelled to imitate
either, but as to whether on the whole the existence of the Religious
Houses was profitable in such practical matters as agriculture, trade,
and the relief of the destitute.

And so it went on, and Ralph began to grow weary of the inconsequence of
the debaters, and their entire inability to hold to the salient points;
but he still kept his hand on the rudder of the discussion, avoided the
fogs of the supernatural and religious on the one side towards which the
little old man persisted in pushing, and, on the other, the blunt views
of the butcher and the man who had told the foul stories; and contented
himself with watching and learning the opinion of the company rather
than contributing his own.

Towards the end of the evening he observed two of his men, who had
slipped in and were sitting at the back of the little stifling room,
hugely enjoying the irony of the situation, and determined on ending the
discussion with an announcement of his own identity.

Presently an opportunity occurred. The little old man had shown a
dangerous tendency to discourse on the suffering souls in purgatory, and
on the miseries inflicted on them by the cessation of masses and
suffrages for their welfare; and an uncomfortable awe-stricken silence
had fallen on the others.

Ralph stood up abruptly, and began to speak, his bright tired eyes
shining down on the solemn faces, and his mouth set and precise.

"Well, gentlemen," he said, "your talk has pleased me very much. I have
learned a great deal, and I hope shall profit by it. Some of you have
talked a quantity of nonsense; and you, Mr. Miggers, have talked the
most, about your uncle John's soul and bones."

A deadly silence fell as these startling words were pronounced; for his
manner up to now had been conciliatory and almost apologetic. But he
went on imperturbably.

"I am quite sure that Almighty God knows His business better than you or
I, Mr. Miggers; and if He cannot take care of Uncle John without the aid
of masses or dirges sung by fat-bellied monks--"

He stopped abruptly, and a squirt of laughter burst from the butcher.

"Well, this is my opinion," went on Ralph, "if you wish to know it. I
do not think, or suspect, as some of you do--but I _know_--as you will
allow presently that I do, when I tell you who I am--I _know_ that these
houses of which we have been speaking, are nothing better than
wasps'-nests. The fellows look holy enough in their liveries, they make
a deal of buzz, they go to and fro as if on business; but they make no
honey that is worth your while or mine to take. There is but one thing
that they have in their holes that is worth anything: and that is their
jewels and their gold, and the lead on their churches and the bells in
their towers. And all that, by the Grace of God we will soon have out of
them."

There was a faint murmur of mingled applause and dissent. Mr. Miggers
stared vacant-faced at this preposterous stranger, and set his mug
resolutely down as a preparation for addressing him, but he had no
opportunity. Ralph was warmed now by his own eloquence, and swept on.

"You think I do not know of what I am speaking? Well, I have a brother a
monk at Lewes, and a sister a nun at Rusper; and I have been brought up
in this religion until I am weary of it. My sister--well, she is like
other maidens of her kind--not a word to speak of any matter but our
Lady and the Saints and how many candles Saint Christopher likes. And my
brother!--Well, we can leave that.

"I know these houses as none of you know them; I know how much wine they
drink, how much they charge for their masses, how much treasonable
chatter they carry on in private--I know their lives as I know my own;
and I know that they are rotten and useless altogether. They may give a
plateful or two in charity and a mug of beer; they gorge ten dishes
themselves, and swill a hogshead. They give a penny to the poor man, and
keep twenty nobles for themselves. They take field after field, house
after house; turn the farmer into the beggar, and the beggar into their
bedesman. And, by God! I say that the sooner King Henry gets rid of the
crew, the better for you and me!"

Ralph snapped out the last words, and stared insolently down on the
gaping faces. Then he finished, standing by the door as he did so, with
his hand on the latch.

"If you would know how I know all this, I will tell you.