 one side, and with an open space on the other lighted by
square windows looking into the garden. The polished boards were bare,
and there was a path marked on them by footsteps going from end to end.

"Here I walk," said More, "and my friends look at me from those shelves,
ready to converse but never to interrupt. Shall we walk here, Mr.
Torridon, while you tell me your business?"

Ralph had, indeed, a touch of scrupulousness as he thought of his host's
confidence, but he had learnt the habit of silencing impulses and of
only acting on plans deliberately formed; so he was soon laying bare his
anxiety about Chris, and his fear that he had been misled by the Holy
Maid.

"I am very willing, Mr. More," he said, "that my brother should be a
monk if it is right, but I could not bear he should be so against God's
leading. How am I to know whether the maid's words are of God or no?"

Sir Thomas was silent a moment.

"But he had thoughts of it before, I suppose," he said, "or he would not
have gone to her. In fact, you said so."

Ralph acknowledged that this was so.

"--And for several years," went on the other.

Again Ralph assented.

"And his tastes and habits are those of a monk, I suppose. He is long
at his prayers, given to silence, and of a tranquil spirit?"

"He is not always tranquil," said Ralph. "He is impertinent sometimes."

"Yes, yes; we all are that. I was very impertinent to you at dinner in
trying to catch you with Martial his epigram, though I shall not offend
again. But his humour may be generally tranquil in spite of it. Well, if
that is so, I do not see why you need trouble about the Holy Maid. He
would likely have been a monk without that. She only confirmed him."

"But," went on Ralph, fighting to get back to the point, "if I thought
she was trustworthy I should be the more happy."

"There must always be doubtfulness," said More, "in such matters. That
is why the novitiate is so severe; it is to show the young men the worst
at once. I do not think you need be unhappy about your brother."

"And what is your view about the Holy Maid?" asked Ralph, suddenly
delivering his point.

More stopped in his walk, cocked his head a little on one side like a
clever dog, and looked at his companion with twinkling eyes.

"It is a delicate subject," he said, and went on again.

"That is what puzzles me," said Ralph. "Will you not tell me your
opinion, Mr. More?"

There was again a silence, and they reached the further end of the
gallery and turned again before Sir Thomas answered.

"If you had not answered me so briskly at dinner, Mr. Torridon, do you
know that I should have suspected you of coming to search me out. But
such a good head, I think, cannot be allied with a bad heart, and I
will tell you."

Ralph felt a prick of triumph but none of remorse.

"I will tell you," went on More, "and I am sure you will keep it
private. I think the Holy Maid is a good woman who has a maggot."

Ralph's spirits sank again. This was a very non-committing answer.

"I do not think her a knave as some do, but I think, to refer to what we
said just now, that she has a large and luminous eye, and no hand worth
mentioning. She sees many visions, but few facts. That tale about the
Host being borne by angels from Calais to my mind is nonsense. Almighty
God does not work miracles without reason, and there is none for that.
The blessed sacrament is the same at Dover as at Calais. And a woman who
can dream that can dream anything, for I am sure she did not invent it.
On other matters, therefore, she may be dreaming too, and that is why
once more I tell you that to my mind you can leave her out of your
thoughts with regard to your brother. She is neither prophetess nor
pythoness."

This was very unsatisfactory, and Ralph strove to remedy it.

"And in the matter of the King's death, Mr. More?" he said.

Again Sir Thomas stopped in his walk.

"Do you know, Mr. Torridon, I think we may leave that alone," he said a
little abruptly. And Ralph sucked in his lip and bit it sharply at the
consciousness of his own folly.

"I hope your brother will be very happy," went on the other after a
moment, "and I am sure he will be, if his call is from God, as I think
likely. I was with the Carthusians myself, you know, for four years,
and sometimes I think I should have stayed there. It is a blessed life.
I do not envy many folks, but I do those. To live in the daily
companionship of our blessed Lord and of his saints as those do, and to
know His secrets--_secreta Domini_--even the secrets of His Passion and
its ineffable joys of pain--that is a very fortunate lot, Mr. Torridon.
I sometimes think that as it was with Christ's natural body so it is
with His mystical body: there be some members, His hands and feet and
side, through which the nails are thrust, though indeed there is not one
whole spot in His body--_inglorious erit inter viros aspectus ejus--nos
putavimus eum quasi leprosum_--but those parts of His body that are
especially pained are at once more honourable and more happy than those
that are not. And the monks are those happy members."

He was speaking very