igantic voice, appealing to Her
Presence who for over a century and a half, it seemed, had chosen
to dwell here by virtue and influence, the Great Mother of the
redeemed and the Consoler of the afflicted, whose Divine Son was
even now on His way, as at Cana itself, to turn the water of
sorrow into the wine of joy. . . . Then, as the canopy came out,
at an imperious gesture from the tiny swaying figure in the
pulpit, the music ceased; great trumpets sounded a phrase; there
was a rustle and a movement as of a breaking wave as the crowds
knelt; and the _Pange Lingua_ rose up in solemn adoration. . . .

As he came down the steps, his eyes quick with tears, he saw for
the first time the lines of the sick in the place to which he had
been told to look. There they lay, some four thousand in number,
placed side by side in two great circling rows round the whole
arena, a fringe of pain to the exultant crowds, in litters laid
so close together that they seemed but two great continuous beds,
and between them the high flower-strewn platform along which
Jesus of Nazareth should pass by. There they lay, all of them
bathed to-day in the strange water that had sprung up a hundred
and fifty years ago under the fingers of a peasant child, waiting
for the sacramental advent of Him who had made both that water
and those for whose healing it was designed.

And yet not all were cured--not perhaps one in ten of all who
came in confidence. That surely was wonderful. . . . Was it then
that that same Sovereign Power who had permitted the pain elected
to retain His own sovereignty, and to show that the Lawgiver was
fettered by no law? One thing at least was certain, if those
records which the priest had examined this morning were to be
believed, that no receptiveness of temperament, no subjective
expectancy of cure, guaranteed that the cure would take place.
Natures that had responded marvellously in the mental
laboratories seemed ineffective here; natures that were inert and
immovable under the influence of sympathetic science leapt up
here to meet the call of some Voice whose very existence a
hundred years ago had been in doubt.

The front of the long procession, Monsignor saw, had reached now
the doors of the basilica, and would presently, after making the
complete round, pour down into the arena to allow the Blessed
Sacrament to move more quickly. It was an exquisite sight, even
from here, as the prelate set foot on the platform and began to
move to the left. The long lines of tapers, four deep, went like
some great serpent, rippling with light, above the heads of the
sick; and here and there in the slopes of the crowded spectators
shone out other lights, steady as stars in the motionless half-lit
evening air. Then, as he went, slowly, pace by pace, he remembered
the sick and glanced down, as the music on a sudden ceased.

Ah! there they lay, those living crucifixes . . . . shrouded in
white, their faces on either side turned inwards that they might
see their Lord. . . . There lay a woman, her face shrivelled with
some internal horror--some appalling disease which even the
science of these days dared not handle, or at least had not; her
large eyes staring with an almost terrible intensity, fixed, it
seemed, in her head, yet waiting for the Vision that even now
might make her whole. There a child tossed and moaned and turned
away his head. There an old man crouched forward upon his litter,
held up on either side by two men in the uniform of the
brancardiers. . . . And so, in endless lines, they lay; from
every nation under heaven: Chinese were there, he saw, and
negroes; and the very air in which he walked seemed alight with
pain and longing.

A great voice broke in suddenly on his musings; and, before he
could fix his attention as to what it said, the words were taken
up by the hundreds of thousands of throats--a short, fervent
sentence that rent the air like a thunder-peal. Ah! he remembered
now. These were the old French prayers, consecrated by a century
of use; and as he passed on, slowly, step by step, watching now
with a backward glance the blessing of the sick that had just
begun--the sign of the cross made with the light golden
monstrance by the bishop who carried it--now the agonized eyes of
expectation that waited for their turn, he too began to hear, and
to take up with his own voice those piteous cries for help.

"_Jesu! heal our sick. . . . Jesu! grant that we may see--may
hear--may walk. . . . Thou art the Resurrection and the
Life. . . . Lord! I believe; help Thou mine unbelief_." Then with
an overwhelming triumph: "_Hosanna to the Son of David! Hosanna,
Hosanna!_" Then again, soft and rumbling: "_O Mary, conceived
without sin, hear us who have recourse to thee._"

The sense of a great circumambient Power grew upon him at each
instant, sacramentalized, it seemed, by the solemn evening light,
and evoked by this tense ardour of half a million souls, and
focused behind him in one burning point. . . .

Ah! there was the first miracle! . . . A cry behind him, an eddy
in the circle of the sick and the waiting attendants, a figure
with shro