t_.... Pour, therefore, Lord, Thy
grace into our hearts. Let us, who know Christ's incarnation, rise
through passion and cross to the glory of Resurrection--through the same
Christ our Lord."

Another bell clanged sharply close at hand, calling him down to earth,
and wrong, and labour and grief; and he turned to see the motionless
volor itself one blaze of brilliant internal light, and the two priests
following the German Cardinal across the gangway.

It was the rear compartment that the men had taken; and when he had seen
that the old man was comfortable, still without a word he passed out
again into the central passage to see the last of Rome.

The exit-door had now been snapped, and as Percy stood at the opposite
window looking out at the high wall that would presently sink beneath
him, throughout the whole of the delicate frame began to run the
vibration of the electric engine. There was the murmur of talking
somewhere, a heavy step shook the floor, a bell clanged again, twice,
and a sweet wind-chord sounded. Again it sounded; the vibration ceased,
and the edge of the high wall against the tawny sky on which he had
fixed his eyes sank suddenly like a dropped bar, and he staggered a
little in his place. A moment later the dome rose again, and itself
sank, the city, a fringe of towers and a mass of dark roofs, pricked
with light, span like a whirlpool; the jewelled stars themselves sprang
this way and that; and with one more long cry the marvellous machine
righted itself, beat with its wings, and settled down, with the note of
the flying air passing through rising shrillness into vibrant silence,
to its long voyage to the north.

Further and further sank the city behind; it was a patch now: greyness
on black. The sky seemed to grow more huge and all-containing as the
earth relapsed into darkness; it glowed like a vast dome of wonderful
glass, darkening even as it glowed; and as Percy dropped his eyes once
more round the extreme edge of the car the city was but a line and a
bubble--a line and a swelling--a line, and nothingness.

He drew a long breath, and went back to his friends.




II

"Tell me again," said the old Cardinal, when the two were settled down
opposite to one another, and the chaplains were gone to another
compartment. "Who is this man?"

"This man? He was secretary to Oliver Brand, one of our politicians. He
fetched me to old Mrs. Brand's death bed, and lost his place in
consequence. He is in journalism now. He is perfectly honest. No, he is
not a Catholic, though he longs to be one. That is why they confided in
him."

"And they?"

"I know nothing of them, except that they are a desperate set. They have
enough faith to act, but not enough to be patient.... I suppose they
thought this man would sympathise. But unfortunately he has a
conscience, and he also sees that any attempt of this kind would be the
last straw on the back of toleration. Eminence, do you realise how
violent the feeling is against us?"

The old man shook his head lamentably.

"Do I not?" he murmured. "And my Germans are in it? Are you sure?"

"Eminence, it is a vast plot. It has been simmering for months. There
have been meetings every week. They have kept the secret marvellously.
Your Germans only delayed that the blow might be more complete. And now,
to-morrow---" Percy drew back with a despairing gesture.

"And the Holy Father?"

"I went to him as soon as mass was over. He withdrew all opposition, and
sent for you. It is our one chance, Eminence."

"And you think our plan will hinder it?"

"I have no idea, but I can think of nothing else. I shall go straight to
the Archbishop and tell him all. We arrive, I believe, at three o'clock,
and you in Berlin about seven, I suppose, by German time. The function
is fixed for eleven. By eleven, then, we shall have done all that is
possible. The Government will know, and they will know, too, that we are
innocent in Rome. I imagine they will cause it to be announced that the
Cardinal-Protector and the Archbishop, with his coadjutors, will be
present in the sacristies. They will double every guard; they will
parade volors overhead--and then--well! in God's hands be the rest."

"Do you think the conspirators will attempt it?"

"I have no idea," said Percy shortly.

"I understand they have alternative plans."

"Just so. If all is clear, they intend dropping the explosive from
above; if not, at least three men have offered to sacrifice themselves
by taking it into the Abbey themselves.... And you, Eminence?"

The old man eyed him steadily.

"My programme is yours," he said. "Eminence, have you considered the
effect in either case? If nothing happens---"

"If nothing happens we shall be accused of a fraud, of seeking to
advertise ourselves. If anything happens--well, we shall all go before
God together. Pray God it may be the second," he added passionately.

"It will be at least easier to bear," observed the old man.

"I beg your pardon, Eminence. I should not have said that."

There fell a silence between the two, in which no sound was heard but
the faint untiring vibration of the screw, and the sudden 