alism lingers
on there with extraordinary pertinacity. Practically Berlin is
the Holy City of Freemasonry. It's all organized from there--such
as it is. And no one is quite comfortable about Germany. The
Emperor Frederick is a perfectly sincere man, but really rather
uneducated; he still holds on to some sort of materialism; and
the result is----"

"I see."

"But there are hopes of his conversion. He's to be at Versailles
next week; and that's a good sign."

"Well, what about America?"

"Oh! America's chiefly English; and very like England."

"You mean she isn't republican?"

"Of course not. My dear Monsignor----"

"Please go on, as I asked you. Tell me when she ceased to
be republican."

"Why, I scarcely know," murmured the priest. "It must have been
about 1930, I suppose. I know there was a lot of trouble before
that--civil wars and so forth. But at any rate that was the end.
Japan got a good deal of the Far West; but the Eastern States
came in with Canada and formed the American Colonies; and the
South of course became Latinized, largely through ecclesiastical
influence. Well, then America asked England----"

"Stop, please. I shall get bewildered. What about the religion?"

"Well, the Empire of Mexico----"

"Eh?"

"The Empire of Mexico."

"Who's Emperor?"

"The King of Spain, Monsignor," said the priest patiently. "Well,
that used to be called South America. It's all the Empire of
Mexico now, and belongs to Spain. That's solidly Catholic, of
course. And the American Colonies--old North America--that's like
England. It's practically Catholic, of course; but there are a
few infidels and Socialists."

"Australia?"

"Australia's entirely Irish, and Catholic."

"And Ireland itself?"

"Oh! Ireland developed enormously as soon as she had gained
independence, but emigration continued, and the Irish strength
really lies abroad. Then an odd thing happened. Ireland continued
to empty, obeying some social law we don't even yet understand
properly; and the Religious began to get possession of the
country in an extraordinary way, until they owned all the large
estates, and even most of the towns. You may say that Ireland is
practically one Religious Enclosure now. Of course, she's a part
of the British Empire; but her real social life lies in her
colonies. Australia succeeded in getting Home Rule from Ireland
about twenty-five years ago."

Monsignor pressed his hands to his head.

"It sounds like the wildest dream," he said.

"Hadn't I better---?"

"No; go on. I only want an outline. What about the East?"

"Well, old superstitions still linger on in the East,
especially in China. But the end is quite certain. It is simply
a matter of time----"

"But . . . but I don't understand. If the whole world is
practically Christian, what is there left to do?"

The priest smiled.

"Ah! but you must remember Germany. There are great forces in
Germany. It's there that the danger lies. And you must remember too
that there is no Universal Arbitrator yet. Nationalism is still
pretty strong. There might easily be another big European war."

"Then you hope----"

"Yes. We're all working for the recognition of the Pope as
Universal Arbitrator, as he was practically in Europe in the
Middle Ages. Of course, as soon as the sovereigns acknowledge
officially that they hold all their rights at the will of Rome,
the thing will be done. But it's not done yet, except----"

"Good God!"

"Look here, Monsignor, you've had enough," said the priest, rising.
"Though I must say you have followed it closely enough. Are you
certain that it is quite new to you? Don't you remember---"

"It's not only new; it's inconceivable! I understand it
perfectly; but----"

"Well, you've had enough. Now what about coming to see the
Cardinal? I feel sure he'll insist upon your taking a rest
instantly. I feel rather guilty----"

"Stop. Tell me about languages. Why did you talk to me in
Latin this morning?"

"Ecclesiastics generally do. And so do the laity a good deal.
Europe is practically bi-lingual. Each country keeps up its
own tongue, and learns Latin as well. You must rub up your
Latin, Monsignor."

"Wait a moment. What are you going to say to the Cardinal?"

"Well, hadn't I better tell him the whole thing, just as it
happened? Then you needn't explain."

The other pondered a moment.

"Thanks very much, father. . . . Stop. Do I talk English all right?"

"Perfectly."

"But----Oh well. . . . And I . . . did I do all right at lunch?
Did any one suspect anything?"

"You did perfectly. You seemed a little absent-minded once or
twice; but that was quite in keeping."

The two smiled at one another pleasantly.

"Then I'll be going," said the priest. "Will you wait here till
I come for you?"





CHAPTER III


(I)

"Just be natural," whispered Father Jervis a quarter of an hour
later, as they passed through the big ante-room. "You needn't
explain a word. I've told him everything."

He tapped; and a voice answered.

Sitting in a big arm-chair drawn up to the writing-table, the man
who had lost his memory saw a tall, thin figure, in black with
scarlet buttons, and a small scarlet skull-cap crown