urt being present; and it was reported here
and there afterwards that the King himself was there in a group of five
horsemen, who came in the accoutrements of Borderers, vizored and armed,
and took up their position close to the scaffold. There fell a terrible
silence as the monks were dragged up on the hurdles, in their habits,
all three together behind one horse. They were cut down almost at once,
and the butchery was performed on them while they were still alive.

Ralph went home in a glow of resolution against them. A tragedy such as
that which he had seen was of necessity a violent motive one way or the
other, and it found him determined that the sufferers were in the wrong,
and left him confirmed in his determination. Their very passivity
enraged him.

Meanwhile, he had of course heard nothing of his brother's presence in
London, and it was with something of a shock that on the next afternoon
he heard the news from Mr. Morris that Mr. Christopher was below and
waiting for him in the parlour.

As he went down he wondered what Chris was doing in London, and what he
himself could say to him. He was expecting Beatrice, too, to call upon
him presently with her maid to give him a message and a bundle of
letters which he had promised to convey to Sir Thomas More. But he was
determined to be kind to his brother.

Chris was standing in his black monk's habit on the other side of the
walnut table, beside the fire-place, and made no movement as Ralph came
forward smiling and composed. His face was thinner than his brother
remembered it, clean-shaven now, with hollows in the checks, and his
eyes were strangely light.

"Why, Chris!" said Ralph, and stopped, astonished at the other's
motionlessness.

Then Chris came round the table with a couple of swift steps, his hands
raised a little from the wide, drooping sleeves.

"Ah! brother," he said, "I have come to bring you away: this is a wicked
place."

Ralph was so amazed that he fell back a step.

"Are you mad?" he said coldly enough, but he felt a twitch of
superstitious fear at his heart.

Chris seized the rich silk sleeve in both his hands, and Ralph felt them
trembling and nervous.

"You must come away," he said, "for Jesu's sake, brother! You must not
lose your soul."

Ralph felt the old contempt surge up and drown his fear. The familiarity
of his brother's presence weighed down the religious suggestion of his
habit and office. This is what he had feared and almost expected;--that
the cloister would make a fanatic of this fantastic brother of his.

He glanced round at the door that he had left open, but the house was
silent. Then he turned again.

"Sit down, Chris," he said, with a strong effort at self-command, and he
pulled his sleeve away, went back and shut the door, and then came
forward past where his brother was standing, to the chair that stood
with its back to the window.

"You must not be fond and wild," he said decidedly. "Sit down, Chris."

The monk came past him to the other side of the hearth, and faced him
again, but did not sit down. He remained standing by the fire-place,
looking down at Ralph, who was in his chair with crossed legs.

"What is this folly?" said Ralph again.

Chris stared down at him a moment in silence.

"Why, why--" he began, and ceased.

Ralph felt himself the master of the situation, and determined to be
paternal.

"My dear lad," he said, "you have dreamed yourself mad at Lewes. When
did you come to London?"

"Yesterday," said Chris, still with that strange stare.

"Why, then--" began Ralph.

"Yes--you think I was too late, but I saw it," said Chris; "I was there
in the evening and saw it all again."

All his nervous tension seemed relaxed by the warm common-sense
atmosphere of this trim little room, and his brother's composure. His
lips were beginning to tremble, and he half turned and gripped the
mantel-shelf with his right hand. Ralph noticed with a kind of
contemptuous pity how the heavy girded folds of the frock seemed to
contain nothing, and that the wrist from which the sleeve had fallen
back was slender as a reed. Ralph felt himself so infinitely his
brother's superior that he could afford to be generous and kindly.

"Dear Chris," he said, smiling, "you look starved and miserable. Shall I
tell Morris to bring you something? I thought you monks fared better
than that."

In a moment Chris was on his knees on the rushes; his hands gripped his
brother's arms, and his wild eyes were staring up with a fanatical fire
of entreaty in them. His words broke out like a torrent.

"Ralph," he said, "dear brother! for Jesu's sake, come away! I have
heard everything. I know that these streets are red with blood, and that
your hands have been dipped in it. You must not lose your soul. I know
everything; you must come away. For Jesu's sake!"

Ralph tore himself free and stood up, pushing back his chair.

"Godbody!" he said, "I have a fool for a brother. Stand up, sir. I will
have no mumming in my house."

He rapped his foot fiercely on the floor, staring down at Chris who had
thrown himself back on his heels.

"Stand up, sir," he said again.

"Will you