ne seemed to be in difficulties with the strong stream and the
piers. A wherry that was directly between them and the bridge moved
off, and the shining water-way was left for the King's Grace to come
down.

Then, again, the brass horns sounded nearer.

Chris was conscious of an immense excitement. The dramatic contrast of
the scene he had just left with that which he was witnessing overpowered
him. He had seen one end of the chain of life, the dying bishop in the
Tower, in his rags; now he was to see the other end, the Sovereign at
whose will he was there, in all the magnificence of a pageant. The Prior
was sitting bolt upright on the seat beside him; one hand lay on his
knee, the knuckles white with clenching, the other gripped the side of
the boat.

Then, again, the fierce music sounded, and the first boat appeared under
one of the wider spans of the bridge, a couple of hundred yards away.

The stream was running out strongly by now, and the boatman tugged to
get out of it into the quieter water at the side, and as he pulled an
oar snapped. The Prior half started up as the man burst out into an
exclamation, and began to paddle furiously with the other oar, but the
boat revolved helplessly, and he was forced to change it to the opposite
side.

Meanwhile the boats were beginning to stream under the bridge, and
Chris, seeing that the boat in which he sat was sufficiently out of the
way to allow a clear passage in mid-stream even if not far enough
removed for proper deference, gave himself up to watching the splendid
sight.

The sun had now dropped behind the high houses by the bridge, and a
shadow lay across the water, but nearer at hand the way was clear, and
in a moment more the leading boat had entered the sunlight.

There was no possibility of mistake as to whether this were the royal
barge or no. It was a great craft, seventy feet from prow to stem at
the very least, and magnificent with colour. As it burst out into the
sun, it blazed blindingly with gold; the prow shone with blue and
crimson; the stern, roofed in with a crimson canopy with flying tassels,
trailed brilliant coarse tapestries on either side; and the Royal
Standard streamed out behind.

Chris tried to count the oars, as they swept into the water with a
rhythmical throb and out again, flashing a fringe of drops and showing a
coat painted on each blade. There seemed to be eight or ten a side. A
couple of trumpeters stood in the bows, behind the gilded carved
figurehead, their trumpets held out symmetrically with the square
hangings flapping as they came.

He could see now the heads of the watermen who rowed, with the caps of
the royal livery moving together like clockwork at the swing of the
oars.

Behind followed the other boats, some half dozen in all; and as each
pair burst out into the level sunlight with a splendour of gold and
colour, and the roar from London Bridge swelled louder and louder, for a
moment the young monk forgot the bitter underlying tragedy of all that
he had seen and knew--forgot oozy Tower-hill and trampled Tyburn and the
loaded gallows--forgot even the grim heads that stared out with dead
tortured eyes from the sheaves of pikes rising high above him at this
moment against the rosy sky--forgot the monks of the Charterhouse and
their mourning hearts; the insulted queen, repudiated and declared a
concubine--forgot all that made life so hard to live and understand at
this time--as this splendid vision of the lust of the eyes broke out in
pulsating sound and colour before him.

But it was only for a moment.

There was a group of half-a-dozen persons under the canopy of the
seat-of-state of the leading boat; the splendid centre of the splendid
show, brilliant in crimson and gold and jewels.

On the further side sat two men. Chris did not know their faces, but as
his eyes rested on them a moment he noticed that one was burly and
clean-shaven, and wore some insignia across his shoulders. At the near
side were the backs of two ladies, silken clad and slashed with crimson,
their white jewelled necks visible under their coiled hair and tight
square cut caps. And in the centre sat a pair, a man and a woman; and on
these he fixed his eyes as the boat swept up not twenty yards away, for
he knew who they must be.

The man was leaning back, looking gigantic in his puffed sleeves and
wide mantle; one great arm was flung along the back of the tapestried
seat, and his large head, capped with purple and feathers, was bending
towards the woman who sat beyond. Chris could make out a fringe of
reddish hair beneath his ear and at the back of the flat head between
the high collar and the cap. He caught a glimpse, too, of a sedate face
beyond, set on a slender neck, with downcast eyes and red lips. And then
as the boat came opposite, and the trumpeters sent out a brazen crash
from the trumpets at their lips, the man turned his head and stared
straight at the boat.

It was an immensely wide face, fringed with reddish hair, scanty about
the lips and more full below; and it looked the wider from the narrow
drooping eyes set near together and the small pursed mou