he conclusion of
that march of events, that coherence of all ideals in a reasoned
whole, that fulfilment of instincts, that play of forces, upon
which, as upon a tide, Catholicism had floated to final victory
in the history of mankind. Not one element had seemed wanting;
and, as if to convince by sensible visions that brain which
shrank from merely argued logic, one by one he had seen for
himself as in a picture lesson, how at Versailles the social
tangle of an individual kingdom had once more submitted to
monarchy--that faulty mirror of the Divine government of the
world; how at Rome the stability of rival kingdoms, had found
itself once more in an arbiter whose kingdom was not of this
world; how finally, at Lourdes, in the widest circle of all, the
very science of the world itself had found itself not confronted
or opposed, but welcomed and transcended, by a school of thinkers
whose limitations lay only in the Infinite.

Once more then he had returned. Yet he had found that the head
and the imagination are not all; that man has a heart as well;
and that this has its demands no less inexorable that those of
intellect. And it was this heart of his that had seemed outraged
and silenced. For he had found in Christianity a synthesis of
ideas--a coincidence of knowledge--which, while satisfying that
head, emerged in a system to which his heart could be no party.
He had learned that "Christian society must protect itself"; and
he had seemed in this to find a denial of the essential Christian
doctrine that success comes only by defeat, and triumph by the
Cross. It had seemed to him that Christ had accepted the taunts
at last, had come down from the Cross and won the homage only of
those who did not understand Him. He had been quieted indeed for
a time, under the power of men who, whatever the rest of the
world might do, still thought that suffering was the better part.
Yet he had been quieted; not convinced.

Then he had sought a glimpse of the reverse of the picture--of
that which now seemed the sole alternative to that faith which he
feared--a glimpse only; yet full of significance. For he had seen
men to whom the better part of themselves seemed nothing; men who
walked with downcast eyes, piling mud and stones together, and
fancying the heap to be a very City of God.

Then, swift as grace itself, had come his answer.

He had seen men who had already all that the world could give,
men who, he had thought, lusted only for power, go to an unknown
and yet a certain death for the sake of a world over which he
had thought they cared only to reign--and go with smiles and
cheerfulness. And while he still hung in indecision, still
hesitated as to whether this or that were the Kingdom of
God--this shrinking dream of a world sufficient to itself, or
this brightening vision--then the last light had come, and he
had seen one to be victor by sheer self-abnegation, by contempt
of his own life, by the all but divine power of an ordinary man
walking in grace. There had been no rhetoric in that triumph, no
promises, no intoxication of phrases, no overwhelming
personality such as that which had faced him. There had been
nothing but a little quiet personage with a father's heart, who
by his very fidelity to his human type, by the absolute
simplicity of his presence had first climbed to the highest
point that man could reach, and then by that same fidelity and
simplicity, had cast himself down, and in the very hour that
followed the unconditional surrender which his enemies had made,
had granted them a measure of liberty such as they had never
dreamed of. In the name of the Powers, whose super-lord and
representative he was, he had abolished the death-penalty for
opinions subversive of society or faith, substituting in its
place deportation to the new American colonies; he had flung
open certain positions in Catholic states hitherto tenable only
on a profession of the Christian religion to all men alike; and
he had guaranteed to the new colonies in America a freedom from
external control and a place among civilized powers such as they
had never expected or asked.

This then was the new type of man who had at last conquered the
world. It was not a superman that had been waited for so long,
not a demigod armed with powers of light; not man raising
himself above his stature, building towers on earthly
foundations that should reach to heaven; but just man, utterly
true to himself and his instincts, walking humbly before his
God; looking for a city that has no foundations, coming down to
him out of heaven. It was supernature, not superman; grace and
truth transfiguring nature; not nature wrenching itself vainly
towards the stature of grace. It was man who could suffer, who
could reign; since he only who knows his weakness, dares to be
strong. . . . _Vicisti Galilaee!_



(II)

Slowly then he had come to see that, as had been told him long
before, the kingdoms of this world were already passing into the
hands of a higher dominion--and this was the significance of this
microcosm of those kingdoms that now lay before his bodily eyes.

There, opposite to hi