ld be seen by unfriendly eyes or praised
by flattering tongues.

Her face grew inexpressibly soft and loving as she talked; more than
once her black eyes filled with tears, and her voice faltered; and the
nun sat almost terrified at the emotion she had called up. It was hardly
possible that this tender feminine creature who talked so softly of
divine and human things and of the strange ardent lawyer in whom both
were so manifest, could be the same stately lady of downstairs who
fenced so gallantly, who never winced at a wound and trod so bravely
over sharp perilous ground.

"They killed him," said Beatrice. "King Henry killed him; for that he
could not bear an honest, kindly, holy soul so near his own. And we are
left to weep for him, of whom--of whom the world was not worthy."

Margaret felt her hand caught and caressed; and the two sat in silence a
moment.

"But--but--" began the nun softly, bewildered by this revelation.

"Yes, my dear; you did not know--how should you?--what a wound I carry
here--what a wound we all carry who knew him."

Again there was a short silence. Margaret was searching for some word of
comfort.

"But you did what you could for him, did you not? And--and even Ralph, I
think I heard--"

Beatrice turned and looked at her steadily. Margaret read in her face
something she could not understand.

"Yes--Ralph?" said Beatrice questioningly.

"You told father so, did you not? He did what he could for Master More?"

Beatrice laid her other hand too over Margaret's.

"My dear; I do not know. I cannot speak of that."

"But you said--"

"Margaret, my pet; you would not hurt me, would you? I do not think I
can bear to speak of that."

The nun gripped the other's two hands passionately, and laid her cheek
against them.

"Beatrice, I did not know--I forgot."

Beatrice stooped and kissed her gently.

       *       *       *       *       *

The nun loved her tenfold more after that. It had been before a kind of
passionate admiration, such as a subject might feel for a splendid
queen; but the queen had taken this timid soul in through the
palace-gates now, into a little inner chamber intimate and apart, and
had sat with her there and shown her everything, her broken toys, her
failures; and more than all her own broken heart. And as, after that
evening, Margaret watched Beatrice again in public, heard her retorts
and marked her bearing, she knew that she knew something that the others
did not; she had the joy of sharing a secret of pain. But there was one
wound that Beatrice did not show her; that secret was reserved for one
who had more claim to it, and could understand. The nun could not have
interpreted it rightly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mary and Nicholas went back to Great Keynes at the end of January; and
Beatrice was out on the terrace with the others to see them go. Jim, the
little seven-year-old boy, had fallen in love with her, ever since he
had found that she treated him like a man, with deference and courtesy,
and did not talk about him in his presence and over his head. He was
walking with her now, a little apart, as the horses came round, and
explaining to her how it was that he only rode a pony at present, and
not a horse.

"My legs would not reach, Mistress Atherton," he said, protruding a
small leather boot. "It is not because I am afraid, or father either. I
rode Jess, the other day, but not astride."

"I quite understand," said Beatrice respectfully, without the shadow of
laughter in her face.

"You see--" began the boy.

Then his mother came up.

"Run, Jim, and hold my horse. Mistress Beatrice, may I have a word with
you?"

The two turned and walked down to the end of the terrace again.

"It is this," said Mary, looking at the other from under her plumed hat,
with her skirt gathered up with her whip in her gloved hand. "I wished
to tell you about my mother. I have not dared till now. I have never
seen her so stirred in my life, as she is now. I--I think she will do
anything you wish in time. It is useless to feign that we do not
understand one another--anything you wish--come back to her Faith
perhaps; treat my father better. She--she loves you, I think; and yet
dare not--"

"On Ralph's account," put in Beatrice serenely.

"Yes; how did you know? It is on Ralph's account. She cannot forgive
that. Can you say anything to her, do you think? Anything to explain?
You understand--"

"I understand."

"I do not know how I dare say all this," went on Mary blushing
furiously, "but I must thank you too for what you have done for my
sister. It is wonderful. I could have done nothing."

"My dear," said Beatrice. "I love your sister. There is no need for
thanks."

A loud voice hailed them.

"Sweetheart," shouted Sir Nicholas, standing with his legs apart at the
mounting steps. "The horses are fretted to death."

"You will remember," said Mary hurriedly, as they turned. "And--God
bless you, Beatrice!"

Lady Torridon was indeed very quiet now. It was strange for the others
to see the difference. It seemed as if she had been conquered by the one
weapon that she could wield, which was brutality