as the door opened, and the
pursuivants stood there in the opening.




CHAPTER VIII

TO CHARING


Chris had something very like remorse after Ralph had left Overfield,
and no words of explanation or regret had been spoken on either side. He
recognised that he had not been blameless at the beginning of their
estrangement--if, indeed, there ever had been a beginning--for their
inflamed relations had existed to some extent back into boyhood as far
as he could remember; but he had been responsible for at least a share
in the fierce words in Ralph's house after the death of the Carthusians.
He had been hot-headed, insolent, theatrical; and he had not written to
acknowledge it. He had missed another opportunity at Lewes--at least
one--when pride had held him back from speaking, for fear that he should
be thought to be currying favour. And now this last opportunity, the
best of all--when Ralph had been accessible and courteous, affected,
Chris imagined, by the death of his mother--this too had been missed;
and he had allowed his brother to ride away without a word of regret or
more than formal affection.

He was troubled at mass, an hour after Ralph had gone; the distraction
came between him and the sweet solemnity upon which he was engaged. His
soul was dry and moody. He showed it in his voice. As a younger brother
in past years; as a monk and a priest now, he knew that the duty of the
first step to a reconciliation had lain with him; and that he had not
taken it.

It had been a troubled household altogether when Ralph had gone. There
was first the shock of Lady Torridon's death, and the hundred regrets
that it had left behind. Then Beatrice too, who had helped them all so
much, had told them that she must go back to town--her aunt was alone in
the little house at Charing, for the friend who had spent Christmas
there was gone back to the country; and Margaret, consequently, had been
almost in despair. Lastly Sir James himself had been troubled; wondering
whether he might not have been warmer with Ralph, more outspoken in his
gratitude for the affair of the mummers, more ready to welcome an
explanation from his son. The shadow of Ralph then rested on the
household, and there was something of pathos in it. He was so much
detached now, so lonely, and it seemed that he was content it should be
so.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were pressing matters too to be arranged; and, weightiest of all,
those relating to Margaret's future. She would now be the only woman
besides the servants, in the house; and it was growing less and less
likely that she would be ever able to take up the Religious Life again
in England. There seemed little reason for her remaining in the country,
unless indeed she threw aside the Religious habit altogether, and went
to live at Great Keynes as Mary preferred. Beatrice made an offer to
receive her in London for a while, but in this case again she would have
to wear secular dress.

The evening before Beatrice left, the two sat and talked for a couple of
hours. Margaret was miserable; she cried a little, clung to Beatrice,
and then was ashamed of herself.

"My dear child," said the other. "It is in your hands. You can do as you
please."

"But I cannot," sobbed the nun. "I cannot; I do not know. Let me come
with you, Beatrice."

Beatrice then settled down and talked to her. She told her of her duty
to her father for the present; she must remember that he was lonely now.
In any case she must not think of leaving home for another six months.
In the meantime she had to consider two points. First, did she consider
herself in conscience bound to Religion? What did the priest tell her?
If she did so consider herself, then there was no question; she must go
to Bruges and join the others. Secondly, if not, did she think herself
justified in leaving her father in the summer? If so, she might either
go to Great Keynes, or come up for at least a long visit to Charing.

"And what do you think?" asked the girl piteously.

"Do you wish me to tell you!" said Beatrice.

Margaret nodded.

"Then I think you should go to Bruges in July or August."

Margaret stared at her; the tears were very near her eyes again.

"My darling; I should love to have you in London," went on the other
caressing her. "Of course I should. But I cannot see that King Henry his
notions make any difference to your vows. They surely stand. Is it not
so, my dear?"

And so after a little more talk Margaret consented. Her mind had told
her that all along; it was her heart only that protested against this
final separation from her friend.

Chris too agreed when she spoke to him a day or two later when Beatrice
had gone back. He said he had been considering his own case too; and
that unless something very marked intervened he proposed to follow Dom
Anthony abroad. They could travel together, he said. Finally, when the
matter was laid before their father he also consented.

"I shall do very well," he said. "Mary spoke to me of it; and Nicholas
has asked me to make my home at Great Keynes; so if you go, my son, with
Meg in the summer, I shall finish m