y the place of a similar divinity with
regard to this girl. Obviously she admired and loved Sir Thomas
More--Ralph soon found out how deeply in the course of his visits--but
she was not in the least afraid of her friend. She serenely contradicted
him when she disagreed with what he said, would fail to keep her
appointments at his house with the same equanimity, and in spite of Sir
Thomas's personality never appeared to give him more than a friendly and
affectionate homage. With regard to Ralph himself, it was the same. She
was not in the least awed by him, or apparently impressed by his
reputation which at this time was growing rapidly as that of a capable
and daring agent of Cromwell's; and even once or twice when he
condescended to hint at the vastness of the affairs on which he was
engaged, in a desperate endeavour to rouse her admiration, she only
looked at him steadily a moment with very penetrating eyes, and began to
speak of something else. He began to feel discouraged.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first hint that Ralph had that he had been making a mistake in his
estimate of her, came from Margaret Roper, who was still living at
Chelsea with her husband Will.

Ralph had walked up to the house one bleak afternoon in early spring
along the river-bank from Westminster, and had found Margaret alone in
the dining-hall, seated by the window with her embroidery in her hand,
and a Terence propped open on the sill to catch the last gleams of light
from the darkening afternoon. She greeted Ralph warmly, for he was a
very familiar figure to them all by now, and soon began to talk, when he
had taken a seat by the wide open fireplace whence the flames flickered
out, casting shadows and lights round the high room, across the
high-hung tapestries and in the gloomy corners.

"Beatrice is here," she said presently, "upstairs with father. I think
she is doing some copying for him."

"She is a great deal with him," observed Ralph.

"Why, yes; father thinks so much of her. He says that none can write so
well as she, or has such a quick brain. And then she does not talk, he
says, nor ask foolish woman-questions like the rest of us." And Margaret
glanced up a moment, smiling.

"I suppose I must not go up," said Ralph, a little peevishly; for he was
tired with his long day.

"Why, no, you must not," said Margaret, "but she will be down soon, Mr.
Torridon."

There was silence for a moment or two; and then Margaret spoke again.

"Mr. Torridon," she said, "may I say something?" Ralph made a little
sound of assent. The warmth of the fire was making him sleepy.

"Well, it is this," said Margaret slowly, "I think you believe that
Beatrice does not like you. That is not true. She is very fond of you;
she thinks a great deal of you," she added, rather hastily.

Ralph sat up; his drowsiness was gone.

"How do you know that, Mrs. Roper?" he asked. His voice sounded
perfectly natural, and Margaret was reassured at the tone of it. She
could not see Ralph well; it was getting dark now.

"I know it well," she said. "Of course we talk of you when you are
gone."

"And does Mrs. Beatrice talk of me?"

"Not so much," said Margaret, "but she listens very closely; and asks us
questions sometimes." The girl's heart was beating with excitement as
she spoke; but she had made up her mind to seek this opportunity. It
seemed a pity, she thought, that two friends of hers should so
misunderstood one another.

"And what kind of questions?" asked Ralph again.

"She wonders--what you really think--" went on Margaret slowly, bending
down over her embroidery, and punctuating her words with
stitches--"about--about affairs--and--and she said one day that--"

"Well?" said Ralph in the same tone.

"That she thought you were not so severe as you seemed," ended Margaret,
her voice a little tremulous with amusement.

Ralph sat perfectly still, staring at the great fire-plate on which a
smoky Phoebus in relief drove the chariot of the sun behind the tall
wavering flames that rose from the burning logs. He knew very well why
Margaret had spoken, and that she would not speak without reason; but
the fact revealed was so bewilderingly new to him that he could not take
it in. Margaret looked at him once or twice a little uneasily; and at
last sighed.

"It is too dark," she said, "I must fetch candles."

She slipped out of the side-door that led to the servants' quarters, and
Ralph was left alone. All his weariness was gone now; the whirl of
images and schemes with which his brain had been seething as he walked
up the river-bank half-an-hour before, had receded into obscurity; and
one dominating thought filled their place: What if Margaret were right?
And what did he mean to do himself? Surely he was not--

The door from the entrance passage opened, and a tall slender figure
stood there, now in light, now in shadow, as the flames rose and fell.

"Meg," said a voice.

Ralph sat still a moment longer.

"Meg," said Beatrice again, "how dark you are."

Ralph stood up.

"Mrs Roper has just gone," he said, "you must put up with me, Mrs.
Beatrice."

"Who is it?" said the gir