signor saw that they understood English
well enough. One man sprang to his feet. But simultaneously the
President was on his own, and with a gesture and a sharp word or
two restored order.

"That is very deplorable violence," said Hardy. "But it is
most Christian."

"I am beginning to think so myself," said the priest.

"Well, well," said the other, tapping the table irritably. "We
must get on----"

A door behind him, communicating with the offices behind the
hall, opened suddenly as he spoke these words, and he broke off.
Monsignor followed the direction of his eyes, and saw a man enter
who was plainly in a state of extreme excitement. He was across
the platform in three or four quick steps, and laid a paper
before the President, pushing by Hardy to do so. Then he stood
back abruptly and waited. The President took up the paper
deliberately and read it. Then he laid it down again, and a
question too was asked smartly in the same rapid German, and
answered as smartly.

Then he turned, and creasing the paper between his fingers as he
spoke, uttered a sentence that brought every man to his feet.



(IV)

In the confusion that followed Monsignor stood for a while
disregarded. The man who had brought the message, had, after one
more sentence snapped at him over the President's shoulder,
vanished once more. For the rest--they were up now, forming into
groups, talking excitedly, dissolving again, and re-forming. Only
two remained quiet--Hardy and the President; the latter still in
his chair, staring out moodily, with the Englishman whispering
into his ear. Then Hardy too stood back and stared about him. One
or two men came up, but he waved them aside. Then his eyes fell
upon the priest, still waiting: he slipped away from the chair,
came down the steps, and beckoned to him.

Monsignor was in a whirl; but he turned and came obediently out
of his place into the corner by the steps. He noticed as he came
that even those who guarded the lower doors were talking.

"There's news," whispered Hardy sharply. "Another envoy is
coming. Who is it?"

The priest shook his head. "I have no idea."

"He'll be here in ten minutes," said Hardy. "He passed the line
of guard-boats five minutes ago. Monsignor----"

"Yes?"

"Just come behind here a moment. I want to have a word with you."

As they crossed the platform he slipped off again to the
President's chair, whispered a word to him, and returned.

"Come through here," he whispered.

Together they passed through the door at the back, and so into
one of the little rooms through which they had come together
half an hour before. There he closed both doors carefully and
came up to the priest.

"Monsignor," he said, and hesitated.

The priest looked at him curiously. He began to see that a
disclosure was coming.

"Monsignor, I have not been hard on you. . . . I came as soon as
I could. . . ."

"Well?"

"I . . . I don't know what's going to happen. The envoy's coming
at the last hour. The Council is in a very divided state of
mind. You saw that?"

"Well?"

"They're wavering. It's no use denying it. They'd accept almost
anything. It's perfectly desperate. They see that now."

He was fingering the priest's sleeve by now, and his eyes were
full of a pitiable anxiety.

"What do you wish me to do?"

"Well, they'll say I was responsible--if the negotiations come to
anything, I mean. They'll say I urged them on. They'll sacrifice
me--me and the President. They'll say they never would have gone
to such lengths----What's that noise?"

Monsignor jerked his head impatiently. He began to see light.

"Well," went on the other nervously, "I want you to speak for me,
if necessary--_if necessary_, you understand? You're a Christian,
Monsignor. . . You'll stand by me."

The priest waited before answering; as the situation took
shape before his eyes, he began to understand more and more
clearly; and yet----

A voice called out sharply beyond the door, and Hardy leapt to
the handle, beckoning with his head; and as the priest obediently
followed, he gave him one more look of entreaty and opened the
door. The President stood there. The great man, more impressive
than ever now, as his great height showed itself, ran his eyes
slowly over the two.

"Come back to the hall," he said, so slowly that even the priest
understood it, and turned.

"The envoy's coming," whispered Hardy breathlessly, as he paused
before following. "You'll remember, Monsignor? . . ."

It was hardly a minute since they had left, and yet all confusion
had vanished. Every man was back in his seat, with that same
impassive and yet attentive air that they had worn when Monsignor
first saw them. Yet, with his new knowledge, it seemed to him as
if he could detect, beneath all that, something of the
indecisiveness of which he had just learned. Certainly they were
under admirable discipline; yet he began to see that even
socialistic discipline had its limitations.

The President was already in the act of sitting down, Hardy was
stepping up behind him, and the priest was still hesitating by
the door, when down at the lower end of the hall there was a
movement among 