 his eyes over them.

They were of the usual nature--complaints, informations, protests,
appeals from men of every rank of life; agents, farm-labourers, priests,
ex-Religious, fanatics--and he read them quickly through, docketing
their contents at the head of each that his master might be saved
trouble.

At one, however, he stopped, glanced momentarily at Cromwell, and then
read on.

It was an illiterate letter, ill-spelt and smudged, and consisted of a
complaint from a man who signed himself Robert Benham, against "Mr.
Ralph Torridon, as he named himself," for hindering the performance of a
piece entitled "The Jolly Friar" in the parish of Overfield, on Sunday,
February the first. Mr. Torridon, the writer stated, had used my Lord
Cromwell's name and authority in stopping the play; expenses had been
incurred in connection with it, for a barn had been hired, and the
transport of the properties had cost money; and Mr. Benham desired to
know whether these expenses would be made good to him, and if Mr.
Torridon had acted in accordance with my Lord's wishes.

Ralph bit his pen in some perplexity, when he had finished making out
the document. He wondered whether he had better show it to Cromwell; it
might irritate him or not, according to his mood. If it was destroyed
surely no harm would be done; and yet Ralph had a disinclination to
destroy it. He sat a moment or two longer considering; once he took the
paper by the corners to tear it; then laid it down again; glanced once
more at the heavy intent face a couple of yards away, and then by a
sudden impulse took up his pen and wrote a line on the corner explaining
the purport of the paper, initialled it, and laid it with the rest.

Cromwell was so busy during the rest of the day that there was no
opportunity to explain the circumstances to him; indeed he was hardly in
the room again, so great was the crowd that waited on him continually
for interviews, and Ralph went away, leaving the reports for his chief
to examine at his leisure.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning there was a storm.

Cromwell burst out on him as soon as he came in.

"Shut the door, Mr. Torridon," he snapped. "I must have a word with
you."

Ralph closed the door and came across to Cromwell's table and stood
there, apparently imperturbable, but with a certain quickening of his
pulse.

"What is this, sir?" snarled the other, taking up the letter that was
laid at his hand. "Is it true?"

Ralph looked at him coolly.

"What is it, my Lord? Mr. Robert Benham?"

"Yes, Mr. Robert Benham. Is it true? I wish an answer."

"Certainly, my Lord. It is true."

"You hindered this piece being played? And you used my name?"

"I told them who I was--yes."

Cromwell slapped the paper down.

"Well, that is to use my name, is it not, Mr. Torridon?"

"I suppose it is."

"You suppose it is! And tell me, if you please, why you hindered it."

"I hindered it because it was not decent. My mother had been buried
that day. My father asked me to do so."

"Not decent! When the mummers have my authority!

"If your Lordship does not understand the indecency, I cannot explain
it."

Ralph was growing angry now. It was not often that Cromwell treated him
like a naughty boy; and he was beginning to resent it.

The other stared at him under black brows.

"You are insolent, sir."

Ralph bowed.

"See here," said Cromwell, "my men must have no master but me. They must
leave houses and brethren and sisters for my sake. You should understand
that by now; and that I repay them a hundredfold. You have been long
enough in my service to know it. I have said enough. You can sit down,
Mr. Torridon."

Ralph went to his seat in a storm of fury. He felt he was supremely in
the right--in the right in stopping the play, and still more so for not
destroying the complaint when it was in his hands. He had been scolded
like a school-child, insulted and shouted down. His hand shook as he
took up his pen, and he kept his back resolutely turned to his master.
Once he was obliged to ask him a question, and he did so with an icy
aloofness. Cromwell answered him curtly, but not unkindly, and he went
to his seat again still angry.

When dinner-time came near, he rose, bowed slightly to Cromwell and went
towards the door. As his fingers touched the handle he heard his name
called; and turned round to see the other looking at him oddly.

"Mr. Torridon--you will dine with me?"

"I regret I cannot, my Lord," said Ralph; and went out of the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were no explanations or apologies on either side when they met
again; but in a few days their behaviour to one another was as usual.
Yet underneath the smooth surface Ralph's heart rankled and pricked with
resentment.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the meeting of Parliament in April, the business in Cromwell's hands
grow more and more heavy and distracting.

Ralph went with him to Westminster, and heard him deliver his eloquent
little speech on the discord that prevailed in England, and the King's
determination to restore peace and concord.

"On the Wor