hought of the peaceful home-life that lay
packed within those walls, and of the errand on which he had come.

But the memory of the tales he had heard, haunted him still; and he
spoke in a harsh voice as the shutter slid back, and a little
criss-crossed square of light appeared in the black doorway.

"I am one of the King's Visitors," he said. "Let my Lady Abbess know I
am here. I must speak with her."

There was a stifled sound behind the grating; and Ralph caught a glimpse
of a pair of eyes looking at him. Then the square grew dark again. It
was a minute or two before anything further happened, and Ralph as he
sat cold and hungry on his horse, began to grow impatient. His hand was
on the twisted iron handle to ring again fiercely, when there was a step
within, and a light once more shone out.

"Who is it?" said an old woman's voice, with a note of anxiety in it.

"I have sent word in," said Ralph peevishly, "that I am one of the
King's Visitors. I should be obliged if I might not be kept here all
night."

There was a moment's silence; the horse sighed sonorously.

"How am I to know, sir?" said the voice again.

"Because I tell you so," snapped Ralph. "And if more is wanted, my name
is Torridon. You have a sister of mine in there."

There was an exclamation from within; and the sound of whispering; and
then hasty footsteps went softly across the paved court inside.

The voice spoke again.

"I ask your pardon, sir; but have you any paper--or--"

Ralph snatched out a document of identification, and leaned forward
from his horse to pass it through the opening. He felt trembling fingers
take it from him; and a moment later heard returning footsteps.

There was a rustle of paper, and then a whisper within.

"Well, my dear?"

Something shifted in the bright square, and it grew gloomy as a face
pressed up against the bars. Then again it shifted and the light shone
out, and a flutter of whispers followed.

"Really, madam--" began Ralph; but there was the jingle of keys, and the
sound of panting, and almost immediately a bolt shot back, followed by
the noise of a key turning. A chorus of whispers broke out and a scurry
of footsteps, and then the door opened inwards and a little old woman
stood there in a black habit, her face swathed in white above and below.
The others had vanished.

"I am very sorry, Mr. Torridon, to have kept you at the door; but we
have to be very careful. Will you bring your horse in, sir?"

Ralph was a little abashed by the sudden development of the situation,
and explained that he had only come to announce his arrival; he had
supposed that there would not be room at the nunnery.

"But we have a little guest-house here," announced the old lady with a
dignified air, "and room for your horse."

Ralph hesitated; but he was tired and hungry.

"Come in, Mr. Torridon. You had better dismount and lead your horse in.
Sister Anne will see to it."

"Well, if you are sure--" began Ralph again, slipping a foot out of the
stirrup.

"I am sure," said the Abbess; and stood aside for him and his beast to
pass.

There was a little court, lighted by a single lamp burning within a
window, with the nunnery itself on one side, and a small cottage on the
other. Beyond the latter rose the roofs of an outhouse.

As Ralph came in, the door from the nunnery opened again, and a lay
sister came out hastily; she moved straight across and took the horse by
the bridle.

"Give him a good meal, sister," said the Abbess; and went past Ralph to
the door of the guest-house.

"Come in, Mr. Torridon; there will be lights immediately."

       *       *       *       *       *

In half an hour Ralph found himself at supper in the guest-parlour; a
bright fire crackled on the hearth, a couple of candles burned on the
table, and a pair of old darned green curtains hung across the low
window.

The Abbess came in when he had finished, dismissed the lay-sister who
had waited on him, and sat down herself.

"You shall see your sister to-morrow, Mr. Torridon," she said, "it is a
little late now. I have sent the boy up to the village for your servant;
he can sleep in this room if you wish. I fear we have no room for more."

Ralph watched her as she talked. She was very old, with hanging cheeks,
and solemn little short-sighted eyes, for she peered at him now and
again across the candles. Her upper lip was covered with a slight growth
of dark hair. She seemed strangely harmless; and Ralph had another prick
of compunction as he thought of the news he had to give her on the
morrow. He wondered how much she knew.

"We are so glad it is you, Mr. Torridon, that have come to visit us. We
feared it might be Dr. Layton; we have heard sad stories of him."

Ralph hardened his heart.

"He has only done his duty, Reverend Mother," he said.

"Oh! but you cannot have heard," exclaimed the old lady. "He has robbed
several of our houses we hear--even the altar itself. And he has turned
away some of our nuns."

Ralph was silent; he thought he would at least leave the old lady in
peace for this last night. She seemed to want no answer; but went on
expatiating on the horrors tha