ood of Boxley was brought up to London
with every indignity, and after being exhibited with shouts of laughter
at Whitehall, and preached against at Paul's Cross, it was tossed down
among the zealous citizens and smashed to pieces. In the summer, among
others, the shrine of St. Swithun at Winchester was defaced and robbed;
and in the autumn that followed the friaries which had stood out so long
began to fall right and left. In October the Holy Blood of Hayles, a
relic brought from the East in the thirteenth century and preserved
with great love and honour ever since, was taken from its resting place
and exposed to ridicule in London. Finally in the same month, after St.
Thomas of Canterbury had been solemnly declared a traitor to his prince,
his name, images and pictures ordered to be erased and destroyed out of
every book, window and wall, and he himself summoned with grotesque
solemnity to answer the charges brought against him, his relics were
seized and burned, and--which was more to the point in the King's view,
his shrine was stripped of its gold and jewels and vestments, which were
conveyed in a string of twenty-six carts to the King's treasury. The
following year events were yet more terrible. The few great houses that
survived were one by one brought within reach of the King's hand; and
those that did not voluntarily surrender fell under the heavier
penalties of attainder. Abbot Whiting of Glastonbury was sent up to
London in September, and two months later suffered on Tor hill within
sight of the monastery he had ruled so long and so justly; and on the
same day the Abbot of Reading suffered too outside his own gateway. Six
weeks afterwards Abbot Marshall, of Colchester, was also put to death.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a piteous life that devout persons led at this time; and few were
more unhappy than the household at Overfield. It was the more miserable
because Lady Torridon herself was so entirely out of sympathy with the
others. While she was not often the actual bearer of ill news--for she
had neither sufficient strenuousness nor opportunity for it--it was
impossible to doubt that she enjoyed its arrival.

They were all together at supper one warm summer evening when a servant
came in to announce that a monk of St. Swithun's was asking hospitality.
Sir James glanced at his wife who sat with passive downcast face; and
then ordered the priest to be brought in.

He was a timid, tactless man who failed to grasp the situation, and when
the wine and food had warmed his heart he began to talk a great deal too
freely, taking it for granted that all there were in sympathy with him.
He addressed himself chiefly to Chris, who answered courteously; and
described the sacking of the shrine at some length.

"He had already set aside our cross called Hierusalem," cried the monk,
his weak face looking infinitely pathetic with its mingled sorrow and
anger, "and two of our gold chalices, to take them with him when he
went; and then with his knives and hammers, as the psalmist tells us, he
hacked off the silver plates from the shrine. There was a fellow I knew
very well--he had been to me to confession two days before--who held a
candle and laughed. And then when all was done; and that was not till
three o'clock in the morning, one of the smiths tested the metal and
cried out that there was not one piece of true gold in it all. And Mr.
Pollard raged at us for it, and told us that our gold was as counterfeit
as the rotten bones that we worshipped. But indeed there was plenty of
gold; and the man lied; for it was a very rich shrine. God's vengeance
will fall on them for their lies and their robbery. Is it not so,
mistress?"

Lady Torridon lifted her eyes and looked at him. Her husband hastened to
interpose.

"Have you finished your wine, father?"

The monk seemed not to hear him; and his talk flowed on about the
destruction of the high altar and the spoiling of the reredos, which had
taken place on the following days; and as he talked he filled his
Venetian glass more than once and drank it off; and his lantern face
grew flushed and his eyes animated. Chris saw that his mother was
watching the monk shrewdly and narrowly, and feared what might come. But
it was unavoidable.

"We poor monks," the priest cried presently, "shall soon be cast out to
beg our bread. The King's Grace--"

"Is not poverty one of the monastic vows?" put in Lady Torridon
suddenly, still looking steadily at his half-drunk glass.

"Why, yes, mistress; and the King's Grace is determined to make us keep
it, it seems."

He lifted his glass and finished it; and put out his hand again to the
bottle.

"But that is a good work, surely," smiled the other. "It will be surely
a safeguard against surfeiting and drunkenness."

Sir James rose instantly.

"Come, father," he said to the staring monk, "you will be tired out, and
will want your bed."

A slow smile shone and laded on his wife's face as she rose and rustled
down the long hall.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such incidents as this made life at Overfield very difficult for them
all; 