e who had not signed he could say
nothing but that they had used the liberty that his Grace had given
them. Whether they had used it rightly was no business of his.

Then he turned to the Prior.

"The seal then, My Lord Prior. I think that is the next matter."

The Prior rose and lifted it from the table. Chris caught the gleam of
the brass and silver of the ponderous precious thing in his hand--the
symbol of their corporate existence--engraved, as he knew, with the four
patrons of the house, the cliff, the running water of the Ouse, and the
rhyming prayer to St. Pancras.

The Prior handed it to the Commissioner, who took it, and stood there a
moment weighing it in his hand.

"A hammer," he said.

One of the secretaries rose, and drew from beneath the table a sheet of
metal and a sharp hammer; he handed both to Dr. Petre.

Chris watched, fascinated with something very like terror, his throat
contracted in a sudden spasm, as he saw the Commissioner place the metal
in the solid table before him, and then, holding the seal sideways, lift
the hammer in his right hand.

Then blow after blow began to echo in the rafters overhead.




CHAPTER V

THE SINKING SHIP


Dr. Petre had come and gone, and to all appearance the priory was as
before. He had not taken a jewel or a fragment of stuff; he had
congratulated the sacristan on the beauty and order of his treasures,
and had bidden him guard them carefully, for that there were knaves
abroad who professed themselves as authorised by the King to seize
monastic possessions, which they sold for their own profit. The offices
continued to be sung day and night, and the masses every morning; and
the poor were fed regularly at the gate.

But across the corporate life had passed a subtle change, analogous to
that which comes to the body of a man. Legal death had taken place
already; the unity of life and consciousness existed no more; the seal
was defaced; they could no longer sign a document except as individuals.
Now the _rigor mortis_ would set in little by little until somatic death
too had been consummated, and the units which had made up the organism
had ceased to bear any relation one to the other.

But until after Christmas there was no further development; and the
Feast was observed as usual, and with the full complement of monks. At
the midnight mass there was a larger congregation than for many months,
and the confessions and communions also slightly increased. It was a
symptom, as Chris very plainly perceived, of the manner in which the
shadow of the King reached even to the remotest details of the life of
the country. The priory was now, as it were, enveloped in the royal
protection, and the people responded accordingly.

There had come no hint from headquarters as to the ultimate fate of the
house; and some even began to hope that the half-promise of a
re-foundation would be fulfilled. Neither had any mark of disapproval
arrived as to the refusal to sign on the part of the two monks; but
although nothing further was said in conversation or at chapter, there
was a consciousness in the minds of both Dom Anthony and Chris that a
wall had arisen between them and the rest. Talk in the cloister was apt
to flag when either approached; and the Prior never spoke a word to them
beyond what was absolutely necessary.

Then, about the middle of January the last process began to be enacted.

       *       *       *       *       *

One morning the Prior's place in church was empty.

He was accustomed to disappear silently, and no astonishment was caused
on this occasion; but at Compline the same night the Sub-Prior too was
gone.

This was an unheard-of state of things, but all except the guest-master
and Chris seemed to take it as a matter of course; and no word was
spoken.

After the chapter on the next morning Dom Anthony made a sign to Chris
as he passed him in the cloister, and the two went out together into the
clear morning-sunshine of the outer court.

Dom Anthony glanced behind him to see that no one was following, and
then turned to the other.

"They are both gone," he said, "and others are going. Dom Bernard is
getting his things together. I saw them under his bed last night."

Chris stared at him, mute and terrified.

"What are we to do, Dom Anthony?"

"We can do nothing. We must stay. Remember that we are the only two who
have any rights here now, before God."

There was silence a moment. Chris glanced at the other, and was
reassured by the steady look on his ruddy face.

"I will stay, Dom Anthony," he said softly.

The other looked at him tenderly.

"God bless you, brother!" he said.

That night Dom Bernard and another were gone. And still the others made
no sign or comment; and it was not until yet another pair had gone that
Dom Anthony spoke plainly.

He was now the senior monk in the house; and it was his place to direct
the business of the chapter. When the formal proceedings were over he
stood up fearlessly.

"You cannot hide it longer," he said. "I have known for some while what
was impending." He glanced round at the empty stalls, and his face
flushed with sudden anger: "Fo