it was hard for these sore hearts to be continually on the watch
for dangerous subjects, and only to be able to comfort one another when
the mistress of the house was absent; but above all it was difficult for
Margaret. She was nearly as silent as her mother, but infinitely more
tender; and since the two were naturally together for the most part,
except when the nun was at her long prayers, there were often very
difficult and painful incidents.

For the first eighteen months after her return her mother let her
alone; but as time went on and the girl's resolution persevered, she
began to be subjected to a distressing form of slight persecution.

For example: Chris and his father came in one day in the autumn from a
walk through the priory garden that lay beyond the western moat. As they
passed in the level sunshine along the prim box-lined paths, and had
reached the centre where the dial stood, they heard voices in the
summer-house that stood on the right behind a yew hedge.

Sir James hesitated a moment; and as he waited heard Margaret's voice
with a thrill of passion in it.

"I cannot listen to that, mother. It is wicked to say such things."

The two turned instantly, passed along the path and came round the
corner.

Margaret was standing with one hand on the little table, half-turned to
go. Her eyes were alight with indignation, and her lips trembled. Her
mother sat on the other side, her silver-handled stick beside her, and
her hands folded serenely together.

Sir James looked from one to the other; and there fell a silence.

"Are you coming with us, Margaret?" he said.

The girl still hesitated a moment, glancing at her mother, and then
stepped out of the summer-house. Chris saw that bitter smile writhe and
die on the elder woman's face, but she said nothing.

Margaret burst out presently when they had crossed the moat and were
coming up to the long grey-towered house.

"I cannot bear such talk, father," she said, with her eyes bright with
angry tears, "she was saying such things about Rusper, and how idle we
all were there, and how foolish."

"You must not mind it, my darling. Your mother does not--does not
understand."

"There was never any one like Mother Abbess," went on the girl. "I never
saw her idle or out of humour; and--and we were all so busy and happy."

Her eyes overflowed a moment; her father put his arm tenderly round her
shoulders, and they went in together.

It was a terrible thing for Margaret to be thrown like this out of the
one life that was a reality to her. As she looked back now it seemed as
if the convent shone glorified and beautiful in a haze of grace. The
discipline of the house had ordered and inspired the associations on
which memories afterwards depend, and had excluded the discordant notes
that spoil the harmonies of secular life. The chapel, with its delicate
windows, its oak rails, its scent of flowers and incense, its tiled
floor, its single row of carved woodwork and the crosier by the Abbess's
seat, was a place of silence instinct with a Divine Presence that
radiated from the hanging pyx; it was these particular things, and not
others like them, that had been the scene of her romance with God, her
aspirations, tendernesses, tears and joys. She had walked in the tiny
cloister with her Lover in her heart, and the glazed laurel-leaves that
rattled in the garth had been musical with His voice; it was in her
little white cell that she had learned to sleep in His arms and to wake
to the brightness of His Face. And now all this was dissipated. There
were other associations with her home, of childish sorrows and passions
before she had known God, of hunting-parties and genial ruddy men who
smelt of fur and blood, of her mother's chilly steady presence--
associations that jarred with the inner life; whereas in the convent
there had been nothing that was not redolent with efforts and rewards of
the soul. Even without her mother life would have been hard enough now
at Overfield; with her it was nearly intolerable.

Chris, however, was able to do a good deal for the girl; for he had
suffered in the same way; and had the advantage of a man's strength. She
could talk to him as to no one else of the knowledge of the interior
vocation in both of them that persevered in spite of their ejection from
the cloister; and he was able to remind her that the essence of the
enclosure, under these circumstances, lay in the spirit and not in
material stones.

It was an advantage for Chris too to have her under his protection. The
fact that he had to teach her and remind her of facts that they both
knew, made them more real to himself; and to him as to her there came
gradually a kind of sorrow-shot contentment that deepened month by month
in spite of their strange and distracting surroundings.

But he was not wholly happy about her; she was silent and lonely
sometimes; he began to see what an immense advantage it would be to her
in the peculiarly difficult circumstances of the time, to have some one
of her own sex and sympathies at hand. But he did not see how it could
be arranged. For the present it was impossibl