rgaret beside her she had watched
Master More in court, in his frieze gown, leaning on his stick, bent and
grey with imprisonment, had heard his clear answers, his searching
questions, and his merry conclusion after sentence had been pronounced;
she had stayed at home with the stricken family on the morning of the
sixth of July, kneeling with them at her prayers in the chapel of the
New Building, during the hours until Mr. Roper looked in grey-faced and
trembling, and they knew that all was over. She went with them to the
burial in St. Peter's Chapel in the Tower; and last, which was the most
dreadful ordeal of all, she had stood in the summer darkness by the
wicket-gate, had heard the cautious stroke of oars, and the footsteps
coming up the path, and had let Margaret in bearing her precious burden
robbed from the spike on London Bridge.

Then for a while she had gone down to the country with Mrs. More and
her daughters; and now she was back once more, in a kind of psychical
convalescence, at her aunt's new house on the river-bank at Charing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her face was a little paler than it used to be, but there was a
quickening brightness in her eyes as she swept along in her blue mantle,
with her maid beside her, in the rear of the liveried servant, who
carried a silver-headed wand a few yards in front.

She was rehearsing to herself the scene in which Ralph had asked her to
be his wife.

Where Chris had left the room the two had remained perfectly still until
the street-door had closed; and then Ralph had turned to her with a
question in his steady eyes.

She had told him then that she did not believe one word of what the monk
had insinuated; but she had been conscious even at the time that she was
making what theologians call an act of faith. It was not that there were
not difficulties to her in Ralph's position--there were plenty--but she
had determined by a final and swift decision to disregard them and
believe in him. It was a last step in a process that continued ever
since she had become interested by this strong brusque man; and it had
been precipitated by the fanatical attack to which she had just been a
witness. The discord, as she thought it, of Ralph's character and
actions had not been resolved; yet she had decided in that moment that
it need not be; that her data as concerned those actions were
insufficient; and that if she could not explain, at least she could
trust.

Ralph had been very honest, she told herself now. He had reminded her
that he was a servant of Cromwell's whom many believed to be an enemy
of Church and State. She had nodded back to him steadily and silently,
knowing what would follow from the paleness of his face, and his bright
eyes beneath their wide lids. She had felt her own breast rise and fall
and a pulse begin to hammer at the spring of her throat. Even now as she
thought of it her heart quickened, and her hands clenched themselves.

And then in one swift moment it had come. She had found her hands caught
fiercely, and her eyes imprisoned by his; and then all was over, and she
had given him an answer in a word.

It had not been easy even after that. Cecily had questioned her more
than once. Mrs. More had said a few indiscreet things that had been hard
to bear; her own aunt had received the news in silence.

But that was over now. The necessary consent on both sides had been
given; and here she was once more walking up the road to Westminster
with Ralph's image before her eyes, and Ralph himself a hundred yards
away.

       *       *       *       *       *

She turned the last corner from the alley, passed up the little street,
and turned again across the little cobbled yard that lay before the
house.

Mr. Morris was at the door as she came up, and he now stood aside. He
seemed doubtful.

"Mr. Torridon has gentlemen with him, madam."

"Then I will wait," said Beatrice serenely, and made a motion to come
in. The servant still half-hesitating opened the door wider; and
Beatrice and her maid went through into the little parlour on the right.

As she passed in she heard voices from the other door. Mr. Morris's
footsteps went down the passage.

She had not very long to wait. There was the sound of a carriage
driving up to the door presently, and her maid who sat in view of the
window glanced out. Her face grew solemn.

"It is Master Cromwell's carriage," she said.

Beatrice was conscious of a vague discomfort; Master Cromwell, in spite
of her efforts, was the shadowed side of Ralph's life.

"Is he coming in?" she said.

The maid peeped again.

"No, madam."

The door of the room they were in was not quite shut, and there was
still a faint murmur of voices from across the hall; but almost
immediately there was the sound of a lifted latch, and then Ralph's
voice clear and distinct.

"I will see to it, my lord."

Beatrice stood up, feeling a little uneasy. She fancied that perhaps she
ought not to be here; she remembered now the servant's slight air of
unwillingness to let her in. There was a footfall in the hall, and the
sound of talking; and as Mr. Morris's has