ated beneath, a little statue of St. Pancras on a bracket
over the fire, and a clear-written copy of rules for guests hung by the
low oak door.

Dom Anthony nodded approvingly at the table, took up a knife and rubbed
it delicately on the napkin, and turned round.

"We will look here," he said, and went towards the second door by the
fire. Christopher followed him, and found himself in the bedroom,
furnished with the same simplicity as the other; but with an iron
bedstead in the corner, a kneeling stool beside it, with a little French
silver image of St. Mary over it, and a sprig of dried yew tucked in
behind. A thin leather-bound copy of the Little Office of Our Lady lay
on the sloping desk, with another book or two on the upper slab. Dom
Anthony went to the window and threw that open too.

"Your luggage is unpacked, I see," he said, nodding to the press beside
which lay the two trunks, emptied now by Mr. Morris's careful hands.

"There are some hares, too," said Christopher. "Ralph has sent them to
my Lord Prior."

"The porter has them," said the monk, "they look strangely like a
bribe." And he nodded again with a beaming face, and his eyes grew
little and bright at his own humour.

He examined the bed before he left the room again, turned back the
sheets and pressed them down, and the straw rustled drily beneath;
glanced into the sweating earthenware jug, refolded the coarse towel on
its wooden peg, and then smiled again at the young man.

"Supper," he said briefly.

Christopher stayed a moment with a word of excuse to wash off the dust
of his ride from his hands and face, and when he came back into the
sitting-room found the candles lighted, the wooden shutters folded over
the windows, and a basin of soup with a roast pigeon steaming on the
table. The monk was standing, waiting for him by the door.

"I must be gone, Chris," he said, "but I shall be back before compline.
My Lord Prior will see you to-morrow. There is nothing more? Remember
you are at home now."

And on Christopher's assurances that he had all he could need, he was
gone, leisurely and cheerfully, and his footsteps sounded on the stairs.

Mr. Morris came up before Chris had finished supper, and as he silently
slipped away his plate and set another for the cheese, Chris remembered
with a nervous exultation that this would be probably the last time that
he would have a servant to wait on him. He was beginning to feel
strangely at home already; the bean soup was strong and savoury, the
beer cool; and he was pleasantly exercised by his ride. Mr. Morris, too,
in answer to his enquiries, said that he had been well looked after in
the servants' quarters of the guest-house, and had had an entertaining
supper with an agreeable Frenchman who, it seemed, had come with the
Cluniac commissioners. Respect for his master and a sense of the
ludicrous struggled in Mr. Morris's voice as he described the
foreigner's pronunciation and his eloquent gestures.

"He's not like a man, sir," he said, and shook with reminiscent
laughter.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was half an hour before Dom Anthony returned, and after hospitable
enquiries, sat down by Chris again in the wide window-seat and began to
talk.

He told him that guests were not expected to attend the night-offices,
and that indeed he strongly recommended Chris doing nothing of the kind
at any rate that night; that masses were said at all hours from five
o'clock onwards; that prime was said at seven, and was followed by the
_Missa familiaris_ for the servants and work-people of the house.
Breakfast would be ready in the guest-house at eight; the chapter-mass
would be said at the half-hour and after the daily chapter which
followed it had taken place, the Prior wished to see Christopher. The
high mass was sung at ten, and dinner would be served at eleven. He
directed his attention, too, to the card that hung by the door on which
these hours were notified.

Christopher already knew that for the first three or four days he would
have to remain in the guest-house before any formal step was taken with
regard to him, but he said a word to Father Anthony about this.

"Yes," said the monk, "my Lord Prior will tell you about that. But you
will be here as a guest until Sunday, and on that day you will come to
the morning chapter to beg for admission. You will do that for three
days, and then, please God, you will be clothed as a novice."

And once more he looked at him with deep smiling eyes.

Chris asked him a few more questions, and Dom Anthony told him what he
wished to know, though protesting with monastic etiquette that it was
not his province.

"Dom James Berkely is the novice-master," he said, "you will find him
very holy and careful. The first matter you will have to learn is how to
wear the habit, carry your hands, and to walk with gravity. Then you
will learn how to bow, with the hands crossed on the knees, so--" and he
illustrated it by a gesture--"if it is a profound inclination; and when
and where the inclinations are to be made. Then you will learn of the
custody of the eyes. It is these little things