ast: it was all one eternal instant, present and
final....

Then he let go of effort, and again began to see with his bodily eyes.

* * * * *

The dawn was coming up the sky now, a steady soft brightening that
appeared in spite of its sovereignty to be as nothing compared with the
brilliant light of the streets. "We need no sun," he whispered, smiling
piteously; "no sun or light of a candle. We have our light on earth--the
light that lighteneth every man...."

The Campanile seemed further away than ever now, in that ghostly glimmer
of dawn--more and more helpless every moment, compared with the
beautiful vivid shining of the streets.

Then he listened to the sounds, and it seemed to him as if somewhere,
far down eastwards, there was a silence beginning. He jerked his head
impatiently, as a man behind him began to talk rapidly and confusedly.
Why would he not be silent, and let silence be heard?... The man stopped
presently, and out of the distance there swelled up a roar, as soft as
the roll of a summer tide; it passed up towards him from the right; it
was about him, dinning in his ears. There was no longer any individual
voice: it was the breathing of the giant that had been born; he was
crying out too; he did not know what he said, but he could not be
silent. His veins and nerves seemed alight with wine; and as he stared
down the long street, hearing the huge cry ebb from him and move toward
the palace, he knew why he had cried, and why he was now silent.

A slender, fish-shaped thing, as white as milk, as ghostly as a shadow,
and as beautiful as the dawn, slid into sight half-a-mile away, turned
and came towards him, floating, as it seemed, on the very wave of
silence that it created, up, up the long curving street on outstretched
wings, not twenty feet above the heads of the crowd. There was one great
sigh, and then silence once more.

* * * * *

When Percy could think consciously again--for his will was only capable
of efforts as a clock of ticks--the strange white thing was nearer. He
told himself that he had seen a hundred such before; and at the same
instant that this was different from all others.

Then it was nearer still, floating slowly, slowly, like a gull over the
sea; he could make out its smooth nose, its low parapet beyond, the
steersman's head motionless; he could even hear now the soft winnowing
of the screw--and then he saw that for which he had waited.

High on the central deck there stood a chair, draped, too, in white,
with some insignia visible above its back; and in the chair sat the
figure of a man, motionless and lonely. He made no sign as he came; his
dark dress showed vividedly against the whiteness; his head was raised,
and he turned it gently now and again from side to side.

It came nearer still, in the profound stillness; the head turned, and
for an instant the face was plainly visible in the soft, radiant light.

It was a pale face, strongly marked, as of a young man, with arched,
black eyebrows, thin lips, and white hair.

Then the face turned once more, the steersman shifted his head, and the
beautiful shape, wheeling a little, passed the corner, and moved up
towards the palace.

There was an hysterical yelp somewhere, a cry, and again the tempestuous
groan broke out.





BOOK II-THE ENCOUNTER



CHAPTER I

I

Oliver Brand was seated at his desk, on the evening of the next day,
reading the leading article of the _New People_, evening edition.

* * * * *

"We have had time," he read, "to recover ourselves a little from the
intoxication of last night. Before embarking on prophecy, it will be as
well to recall the facts. Up to yesterday evening our anxiety with
regard to the Eastern crisis continued; and when twenty-one o'clock
struck there were not more than forty persons in London--the English
delegates, that is to say--who knew positively that the danger was over.
Between that moment and half-an-hour later the Government took a few
discreet steps: a select number of persons were informed; the police
were called out, with half-a-dozen regiments, to preserve order; Paul's
House was cleared; the railroad companies were warned; and at the half
hour precisely the announcement was made by means of the electric
placards in every quarter of London, as well as in all large provincial
towns. We have not space now to adequately describe the admirable manner
in which the public authorities did their duty; it is enough to say that
not more than seventy fatalities took place in the whole of London; nor
is it our business to criticise the action of the Government, in
choosing this mode of making the announcement.

"By twenty-two o'clock Paul's House was filled in every corner, the Old
Choir was reserved for members of Parliament and public officials, the
quarter-dome galleries were filled with ladies, and to the rest of the
floor the public was freely admitted. The volor-police also inform us
now that for about the distance of one mile in every direction round
this centre every thoroughfare was blocked with pedestrians, and, two
hours later, as we all know, practically all the main streets of the
whole 