 I suppose Socialists say them now.
But, you know, no educated man ever dreams of such arguments; nor
indeed do the uneducated! It's the half-educated, as usual, who's
the enemy. He always is. The Wise Men and the shepherds both
knelt in Bethlehem. It was the bourgeois who stood apart."

"That's no answer," persisted the other.

"Well, let's see," said the priest good-humouredly. "We'll begin
with celibacy. Now it's perfectly true that it's thought almost a
disgrace for a man not to have a large family. The average is
certainly not less than ten in civilized nations. But for all
that a priest is looked upon without any contempt at all. Why?
Because he's a spiritual father; because he begets spiritual
children to God, and feeds and nourishes them. Of course to an
atheist this is nonsense; and even to an agnostic it's a very
doubtful benefit. But, my dear Monsignor, you must remember that
these hardly exist amongst us. The entire civilized world of
to-day is as absolutely convinced of Heaven and Grace and the
Church, and the havoc that Sin makes not only as regards the next
world but in this--so absolutely convinced that he understands
perfectly that a priest is far more productive of general good
than a physical father possibly can be. It's the priest who keeps
the whole thing going. Don't you see? And then, in a Catholic
world, the instinct that the man who serves the altar should be
without physical ties--well, that's simply natural."

"Go on. What about education?"

"My dear friend," said Father Jervis. "The Church controls the
whole of education, as she did, in fact, up to the very time when
the State first took it away from her and then abused her for
neglecting it. Practically all the scientists; all the
specialists in medicine, chemistry, and mental health;
nine-tenths of the musicians; three-quarters of the
artists--practically all those are Religious. It's only the
active trades, which are incompatible with Religion, that are in
the hands of the laity. It's been found by experience that no
really fine work can be done except by those who are familiar
with divine things; because it's only those who see things all
round, who have, that is to say, a really comprehensive
intuition. Take history. Unless you have a really close grasp of
what Providence means--of not only the End, but the Means by
which God works; unless you can see right through things to their
Intention, how in the world can you interpret the past? Don't you
remember what Manners said about Realism? We don't want
misleading photographs of externals any more. We want Ideas. And
how can you correlate Ideas, unless you have a real grasp of the
Central Idea? It's nonsense."

"Go on with the other things."

"There's a lot more about education. There's the graduated
education we have now (entirely an ecclesiastical notion, by the
way). We don't try to teach everybody everything. We teach a
certain foundation to every one--the Catechism, of course, two
languages perfectly, the elements of physical science, and a
great deal of history. (You can't understand the Catechism
without history, and _vice-versa_); but after that we specialize.
Well, the world understands now----"

"That's enough, thank you. Go on with the other things."

Father Jervis laughed again.

"We're nearly home. Let's turn in here, and get into the gardens
for a bit. . . . Well, I think you'll find that the root of all
your difficulties is that you seem not to be able to get into
your head that the world is really and intelligently Christian.
There are the Religious Orders you spoke of. Well, aren't the
active Religious Orders the very finest form of association ever
invented? Aren't they exactly what Socialists have always been
crying for, with the blunders left out and the gaps filled in? As
soon as the world understood finally that the active Religious
Orders could beat all other forms of association at their own
game--that they could teach and work more cheaply and
effectively, and so on--well, the most foolish Political
Economist had to confess that the Religious Orders made for the
country's welfare. And as for the Contemplative Orders----"

Father Jervis' face grew grave and tender.

"Yes?"

"Why, they're the princes of the world! They are models of the
Crucified. So long as there is Sin in the world, so long must
there be Penance. The instant Christianity was accepted, the
Cross stood up dominant once more. . . . And then . . . then
people understood. Why, they're the Holy Ones of the
universe--higher than angels; for they suffer. . . ."

There was a moment's silence.

"Yes?" said Monsignor softly.

"My dear Monsignor, just force upon your mind the fact that the
world is really and intelligently Christian. I think it'll all
be plain then. You seem to me, if I may say so, to be falling
into the old-fashioned way of looking at 'Clericalism,' as it
used to be called, as a kind of department of life, like Art or
Law. No wonder men resented its intrusion when they conceived of
it like that. Well, there is no 'Clericalism' now, and therefore
there is no anti-Clericalism. There's just religion--