ialists
repudiated all the international laws of warfare. The defiance
was, of course, a ridiculous and a desperate one, but it was the
defiance of a savage child who held all modern resources in his
hands and knew how to use them. There was also possible, as some
said, a rising all over the civilized world, should the movement
meet with success.

So much, in brief, was what Monsignor Masterman knew. So much,
indeed, was now public property all the world over, and it was
not reassuring.

Certainly he feared death for himself; yet, as he paced up and
down, he could honestly and sincerely tell himself that this was
not foremost in his mind. Rather it was a sense of bewildered
shock and horror that such things could have broken in upon that
orderly, disciplined world with which he had become familiar. It
was this horror that hung over him--its impression deepened by
the bleak April morning, the nervous strain under which he
suffered, the brusque discourtesy of the men who had received
him, and the knowledge that scarcely thirty-six hours before an
envoy who had come alone and peaceably had been done to death in
this silent city. And the horror also centred for him now, as in
a symbol, in the old Cardinal whom he was learning to love.

He framed, as men do when the imagination is stimulated to the
highest pitch, a dozen possible events--each seen by him
mentally, clear, in a picture. He constructed for himself the
Cardinal's return with news of a compromise, with an announcement
at least of delay. (He knew a few of the proposals that were to
be made by sanction of the Pope.) Or he saw him coming back,
anxious and perturbed, with nothing decided. Or he imagined
himself being sent for in haste. . . . And there were other
pictures, more terrible; and against these he strove with all his
will, telling himself that it was inconceivable that such things
should be. Yet not one of his imaginings was as terrible as the
event itself. . . .

It came swift and sudden, without the faintest sign or premonition.

As he turned in his endless pacings, down at the farther end of
the room, his ears for the instant filled with the clatter of
some cart outside the open, barred windows, a figure came swiftly
into the room, without the sound of a footstep to warn him.
Behind he could make out two faces waiting. . . .

It was the Cardinal who stood there, upright and serene as ever,
with a look in his eyes that silenced the priest. He lifted his
hand on which shone his great amethyst, and at the motion,
scarcely knowing what he did, the priest was on his knees.

"_Benedictio Dei omnipotentis Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti,
descendat super te, et maneat semper._"

That was all; not a word more.

And as the priest sprang up with a choking cry, the slender
figure was gone, and the door shut and locked.




CHAPTER III



(I)

All day long there had hung a strange silence over the city,
unlike in its quality that ordinary comparative quiet of modern
towns to which the man who had lost his memory had become by now
accustomed. He knew well by now the gentle, almost soothing, hum
of busy streets, as the traffic and the footsteps went over the
noiseless pavements, and the air murmured with the clear subdued
notes of the bells and the melodious horns of the swifter
vehicles; all this had something of a reassuring quality,
reminding the listener that he lived in a world of men, active
and occupied indeed, but also civilized and self-controlled.

But the silence of this inner quarter of Berlin was completely
different. Its profoundness was sinister and suggestive. Now and
again came a rapid hooting note, growing louder and more
insistent, as some car, bound on revolutionary work, tore up some
street out of sight at forty miles an hour and away again into
silence. Several times he heard voices in sharp talk pass beneath
his window. Occasionally somewhere overhead in the great
buildings sounded the whir of a lift, a footstep, the throwing up
of a window. And to each sound he listened eagerly and intently,
ignorant as to whether it might not mark the news of some fresh
catastrophe, the tidings of some decision that would precipitate
his world about him.

As to the progress of events he knew nothing at all.

Since that horrible instant when the door had closed in his face
and the Cardinal had gone again as mysteriously as he had come--now
three days ago--he had heard no hint that could tell him how things
developed. He had not even dared to ask the taciturn servant in
uniform who brought him food as to the fate of the old man.
For he knew with a certainty as clear as if he had seen the dreadful
thing done, that his friend and master was dead--dead, as the
Revolutionary Committee had said he would be, if he came with any
message other than that of submission. As to the manner of his death
he dared not even conjecture. It would be swift, at least. . . .

Ten thousand thoughts, recurring and recurring, like pictures
thrown on a wall, ran past his attention as the hours went by. He
saw the gathering of armaments--the horizon tinged by the
gathering war-vessels of the