y and laurel in the air. It was a little piteous, Ralph thought,
under the circumstances.

Another stage had been passed in More's journey towards death, in the
previous month, when he had been attainted of misprision of treason by
an act designed to make good the illegality of his former conviction,
and the end was beginning to loom clear.

"I said it would be no use, Mistress Beatrice, and it is none--Master
Cromwell will not hear a word."

Beatrice looked up at Ralph, and down again, as her manner was. Her
hands were lying on her lap perfectly still as she sat upright in her
tall chair.

"You have done what you could, I know," she said, softly.

"Master Cromwell did not take it very well," went on Ralph with an
appearance of resolute composure, "but that was to be expected."

Again she looked up, and Ralph once more was seized with the desire to
precipitate matters and tell her what was in his heart, but he repressed
it, knowing it was useless to speak yet.

It was a very stately and slow wooing, like the movement of a minuet;
each postured to each, not from any insincerity, except perhaps a little
now and then on Ralph's side, but because for both it was a natural mode
of self-expression. It was an age of dignity abruptly broken here and
there by violence. There were slow and gorgeous pageants followed by
brutal and bestial scenes, like the life of a peacock who paces
composedly in the sun and then scuttles and screams in the evening. But
with these two at present there was no occasion for abruptness, and
Ralph, at any rate, contemplated with complacency his own graciousness
and grandeur, and the skilfully posed tableaux in which he took such a
sedate part.

As the spring drew on and the crocuses began to star the grass along the
river and the sun to wheel wider and wider, the chill and the darkness
began to fall more heavily on the household at Chelsea. They were
growing very poor by now; most of Sir Thomas's possessions elsewhere had
been confiscated by the King, though by his clemency Chelsea was still
left to Mrs. Alice for the present; and one by one the precious things
began to disappear from the house as they were sold to obtain
necessaries. All the private fortune of Mrs. More had gone by the end of
the winter, and her son still owed great sums to the Government on
behalf of his father.

At the beginning of May she told Ralph that she was making another
appeal to Cromwell for help, and begged him to forward her petition.

"My silks are all gone," she said, "and the little gold chain and cross
that you may remember, Mr. Torridon, went last month, too--I cannot tell
what we shall do. Mr. More is so obstinate"--and her eyes filled with
tears--"and we have to pay fifteen shillings every week for him and John
a' Wood."

She looked so helpless and feeble as she sat in the window seat,
stripped now of its tapestry cushions, with the roofs of the New
Building rising among its trees at the back, where her husband had
walked a year ago with such delight, that Ralph felt a touch of
compunction, and promised to do his best.

He said a word to Cromwell that evening as he supped with him at
Hackney, and his master looked at him curiously, sitting forward in the
carved chair he had had from Wolsey, in his satin gown, twisting the
stem of his German glass in his ringed fingers.

"And what do you wish me to do, sir?" he asked Ralph with a kind of
pungent irony.

Ralph explained that he scarcely knew himself; perhaps a word to his
Grace--

"I will tell you what it is, Mr. Torridon," broke in his master, "you
have made another mistake. I did not intend you to be their friend, but
to seem so."

"I can scarcely seem so," said Ralph quietly, but with a certain
indignation at his heart, "unless I do them little favours sometimes."

"You need not seem so any longer," said Cromwell drily, "the time is
past."

And he set his glass down and sat back.

Yet Ralph's respect and admiration for his master became no less. He had
the attractiveness of extreme and unscrupulous capability. It gave Ralph
the same joy to watch him as he found in looking on at an expert fencer;
he was so adroit and strong and ready; mighty and patient in defence,
watchful for opportunities of attack and merciless when they came. His
admirers scarcely gave a thought to the piteousness of the adversary;
they were absorbed in the scheme and proud to be included in it; and men
of heart and sensibility were as hard as their master when they carried
out his plans.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fate of the Carthusians would have touched Ralph if he had been a
mere onlooker, as it touched so many others, but he had to play his part
in the tragedy, and was astonished at the quick perceptions of Cromwell
and his determined brutality towards these peaceful contemplatives whom
he recognised as a danger-centre against the King's policy.

He was present first in Cromwell's house when the three Carthusian
priors of Beauvale, Axholme and London called upon him of their own
accord to put their questions on the meaning of the King's supremacy:
but their first question,