s own insistence; and they noticed nothing,
till the door was flung open, and the old man stood there, his eyes
bright and his lips trembling with hope. He held a scrap of paper in his
hand.

"Listen," he cried as the others sprang to their feet.

"A fellow has just come from Mr. Herries with this"--he lifted the paper
and read,--"Mr. Torridon's name is not in the bill. I will be with you
to-morrow."

"Thank God!" said Chris.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was another long discussion the following morning. Mr. Herries
arrived about ten o'clock to certify his news; and the four sat till
dinner once again, talking and planning. There was not the same
desperate hurry now; the first danger was passed.

There was only one thing that the lawyer could do, and that was to
repeat his advice to seek the intercession of the Archbishop. He
observed again that while Cranmer had the friendship of the fallen
minister, he had not in any sense been involved in his fall; he was
still powerful with the King, and of considerable weight with the
Council in consequence. He was likely therefore to be both able and
willing to speak on behalf of Cromwell's agent.

"But I would advise nothing to be done until the bill of attainder has
come before Parliament. We do not know yet how far Mr. Torridon's action
has affected the evidence. From what you say, gentlemen, and from what I
have heard elsewhere, I should think that the papers Mr. Torridon
destroyed are not essential to a conviction. My Lord's papers at his own
house are sufficient."

But they had some difficulty in persuading Sir James to consent to ask a
favour of the Archbishop. In his eyes, Cranmer was beyond the pale of
decency; he had lived with two women, said the old man, whom he called
his wives, although as a priest he was incapable of marriage; he had
violated his consecration oath; he had blessed and annulled the frequent
marriages of the King with equal readiness; he was a heretic confessed
and open on numberless points of the Catholic Faith.

Mr. Herries pointed out with laborious minuteness that this was beside
the question altogether. He did not propose that Sir James Torridon
should go to the Archbishop as to a spiritual superior, but as to one
who chanced to have great influence;--if he were a murderer it would
make no difference to his advice.

Chris broke in with troubled eyes.

"Indeed, sir," he said to his father, "you know how I am with you in
all that you say; and yet I am with Mr. Herries too. I do not
understand--"

"God help us," cried the old man. "I do not know what to do."

"Will you talk with Mistress Beatrice?" asked Chris.

Sir James nodded.

"I will do that," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day the bill was passed; and the party in the house at Charing
sat sick at heart within doors, hearing the crowds roaring down the
street, singing and shouting in triumph. Every cry tore their hearts;
for was it not against Ralph's master and friend that they rejoiced? As
they sat at supper a great battering broke out at the door that looked
on to the lane; and they sprang up to hear a drunken voice bellowing at
them to come out and shout for liberty. Nicholas went crimson with
anger; and he made a movement towards the hall, his hand on his hilt.

"Ah! sit down, Nick," said the monk. "The drunken fool is away again."

And they heard the steps reel on towards Westminster.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not until a fortnight later that they went at last to Lambeth.

Sir James had been hard to persuade; but Beatrice had succeeded at last.
Nicholas had professed himself ready to ask a favour of the devil
himself under the circumstances; and Chris himself continued to support
the lawyer's opinion. He repeated his arguments again and again.

Then it was necessary to make an appointment with the Archbishop; and a
day was fixed at last. My Lord would see them, wrote a secretary, at
two o'clock on the afternoon of July the third.

Beatrice sat through that long hot afternoon in the window-seat of the
upstairs parlour, looking out over the wide river below, conscious
perhaps for the first time of the vast weight of responsibility that
rested on her.

She had seen them go off in a wherry, the father and son with Nicholas
in the stern, and the lawyer facing them on the cross-bench; they had
been terribly silent as they walked down to the stairs; had stood
waiting there without a word being spoken but by herself, as the wherry
made ready; and she had talked hopelessly, desperately, to relieve the
tension. Then they had gone off. Sir James had looked back at her over
his shoulder as the boat put out; and she had seen his lips move. She
had watched them grow smaller and smaller as they went, and then when a
barge had come between her and them, she had gone home alone to wait for
their return, and the tidings that they would bring.

And she, in a sense was responsible for it all. If it had not been for
her visit to Ralph, he would have handed the papers over to the
authorities; he would be at liberty now, no doubt, as were Cromw