ed to join in that consecrated offering.

He waited until all was over, and the two lines of black figures had
passed out southwards, and the sacristan was going round putting out
the lights; and then he too rose and went out, thrilled and excited,
into the gathering twilight, as the bell for supper began to sound out
from the refectory tower.

He found Mr. Morris waiting for him at the entrance to the guest-house,
and the two went up the stairs at the porter's directions into the
parlour that looked out over the irregular court towards the church and
convent.

Christopher sat down in the window seat.

Over the roofs opposite the sky was still tender and luminous, with rosy
light from the west, and a little troop of pigeons were wheeling over
the church in their last flight before returning home to their huge
dwelling down by the stream. The porter had gone a few minutes before,
and Christopher presently saw him returning with Dom Anthony Marks, the
guest-master, whom he had got to know very well on former visits. In a
fit of shyness he drew back from the window, and stood up, nervous and
trembling, and a moment later heard steps on the stairs. Mr. Morris had
slipped out, and now stood in the passage, and Chris saw him bowing with
a nicely calculated mixture of humility and independence. Then a black
figure appeared in the doorway, and came briskly through.

"My dear Chris," he said warmly, holding out his hands, and Chris took
them, still trembling and excited.

They sat down together in the window-seat, and the monk opened the
casement and threw it open, for the atmosphere was a little heavy, and
then flung his arm out over the sill and crossed his feet, as if he had
an hour at his disposal. Chris had noticed before that extraordinary
appearance of ease and leisure in such monks, and it imperceptibly
soothed him. Neither would Dom Anthony speak on technical matters, but
discoursed pleasantly about the party at Overfield Court and the beauty
of the roads between there and Lewes, as if Chris were only come to pay
a passing visit.

"Your horses are happy enough," he said. "We had a load of fresh beans
sent in to-day. And you, Chris, are you hungry? Supper will be here
immediately. Brother James told the guest-cook as soon as you came."

He seemed to want no answer, but talked on genially and restfully about
the commissioners who had come from Cluny to see after their possessions
in England, and their queer French ways.

"Dom Philippe would not touch the muscadel at first, and now he cannot
have too much. He clamoured for claret at first, and we had to give him
some. But he knows better now. But he says mass like a holy angel of
God, and is a very devout man in all ways. But they are going soon."

Dom Anthony fulfilled to perfection the ideal laid down for a
guest-master in the Custumal. He showed, indeed, the "cheerful
hospitality to guests" by which "the good name of the monastery was
enhanced, friendships multiplied, enmities lessened, God honoured, and
charity increased." He recognised perfectly well the confused terror in
Christopher's mind and his anxiety to make a good beginning, and
smoothed down the tendency to awkwardness that would otherwise have
shown itself. He had a happy tranquil face, with wide friendly eyes that
almost disappeared when he laughed, and a row of even white teeth.

As he talked on, Christopher furtively examined his habit, though he
knew every detail of it well enough already. He had, of course, left his
cowl, or ample-sleeved singing gown, in the sacristy on leaving the
church, and was in his black frock girded with the leather belt, and
the scapular over it, hanging to the ground before and behind. His hood,
Christopher noticed, was creased and flat as if he were accustomed to
sit back at his ease. He wore strong black leather boots that just
showed beneath his habit, and a bunch of keys, duplicates of those of
the camerarius and cook, hung on his right side. He was tonsured
according to the Benedictine pattern, and his lips and cheeks were
clean-shaven.

He noticed presently that Christopher was eyeing hum, and put his hand
in friendly fashion on the young man's knee.

"Yes," he said, smiling, "yours is ready too. Dom Franklin looked it out
to-day, and asked me whether it would be the right size. But of the
boots I am not so sure."

There was a clink and a footstep outside, and the monk glanced out.

"Supper is here," he said, and stood up to look at the table--the
polished clothless top laid ready with a couple of wooden plates and
knives, a pewter tankard, salt-cellar and bread. There was a plain chair
with arms drawn up to it. The rest of the room, which Christopher had
scarcely noticed before, was furnished plainly and efficiently, and had
just that touch of ornament that was intended to distinguish it from a
cell. The floor was strewn with clean rushes; a couple of iron
candlesticks stood on the mantelpiece, and the white walls had one or
two religious objects hanging on them--a wooden crucifix opposite the
table, a framed card bearing an "Image of Pity" with an indulgenced
prayer illumin