way into the Council-room, and laid them on the table. It
would be just the end of all things for his master. There would be no
more bullying and denouncing then on that side; it would be a matter of
a fight for life.

The memory of his own grudge, only five months old, rose before his
mind; and his tired brain grew hot and cloudy with resentment. He took
up the bundle in his hand and wielded it a moment, as a man might test a
sword. Here was a headsman's axe, ground and sharp.

Then he was ashamed; set the bundle down again, leaned back in his chair
and stretched his arms, yawning.

What a glorious evening it was! He must go out and take the air for a
little by the river; he would walk down towards Chelsea.

He rose up from his chair and went to the window, threw it open and
leaned out. His house stood back a little from the street; and there was
a space of cobbled ground between his front-door and the uneven stones
of the thorough fare. Opposite rose up one of the tall Westminster
houses, pushing forward in its upper stories, with a hundred diamond
panes bright in the slanting sunshine that poured down the street from
the west. Overhead rose up the fantastic stately chimneys, against the
brilliant evening sky, and to right and left the street passed out of
sight in a haze of sunlight.

It was a very quiet evening; the men had not yet begun to stream
homewards from their occupations; and the women were busy within. A
chorus of birds sounded somewhere overhead; but there was not a living
creature to be seen except a dog asleep in the sunshine at the corner of
the gravel.

It was delicious to lean out here, away from the fire that burned hot
and red in the grate under its black mass of papers that had been
destroyed,--out in the light and air. Ralph determined that he would let
the fire die now; it would not be needed again.

He must go out, he told himself, and not linger here. He could lock up
the papers for the present in readiness for their transport next day;
and he wondered vaguely whether his hat and cane were in the
entrance-hall below.

He straightened himself, and turned away from the window, noticing as he
did so the dog at the corner of the street sit up with cocked ears. He
hesitated and turned back.

There was a sound of furious running coming up the street. He would just
see who the madman was who ran like this on a hot evening, and then go
out himself.

As he leaned again the pulsating steps came nearer; they were coming
from the left, the direction of the Palace.

A moment later a figure burst into sight, crimson-faced and hatless,
with arms gathered to the sides and head thrown back; it appeared to be
a gentleman by the dress--but why should he run like that? He dashed
across the opening and disappeared.

Ralph was interested. He waited a minute longer; but the footsteps had
ceased; and he was just turning once more from the window, when another
sound made him stand and listen again.

It came from the same direction as before; and at first he could not
make out what it was. There was a murmur and a pattering.

It came nearer and louder; and he could distinguish once more running
footsteps. Were they after a thief? he wondered. The murmur and clatter
grew louder yet; and a second or two later two men burst into sight;
one, an apprentice with his leather apron flapping as he ran, the other
a stoutish man like a merchant. They talked and gesticulated as they
went.

The murmur behind swelled up. There were the voices of many people, men
and women, talking, screaming, questioning. The dog was on his feet by
now, looking intently down the street.

Then the first group appeared; half a dozen men walking fast or
trotting, talking eagerly. Ralph could not hear what they said.

Then a number surged into sight all at once, jostling round a centre,
and a clamour went up to heaven. The dog trotted up suspiciously as if
to enquire.

Ralph grew excited; he scarcely knew why. He had seen hundreds of such
crowds; it might mean anything, from a rise in butter to a declaration
of war. But there was something fiercely earnest about this mob. Was the
King ill?

He leaned further from the window and shouted; but no one paid him the
slightest attention. The crowd shifted up the street, the din growing
as they went; there was a sound of slammed doors; windows opened
opposite and heads craned out. Something was shouted up and the heads
disappeared.

Ralph sprang back from the window, as more and more surged into sight;
he went to his door, glancing at his papers as he ran across; unlocked
the door; listened a moment; went on to the landing and shouted for a
servant.

There was a sound of footsteps and voices below; the men were already
alert, but no answer came to his call. He shouted again.

"Who is there? Find out what the disturbance means."

There was an answer from one of his men; and the street door opened and
closed. Again he ran to the window, and saw his man run out without his
doublet across the court, and seize a woman by the arm.

He waited in passionate expectancy; saw him drop the woman's arm and
turn to another; and t