 an athlete's,
and his wrinkles scarcely perceptible in the half light. _Papa
Angelicus!_ reflected Percy.

The Cardinal ceased his explanations, and made a little gesture. Percy
drew up all his faculties tense and tight to answer the questions that
he knew were coming.

"I welcome you, my son," said a very soft, resonant voice.

Percy bowed, desperately, from the waist.

The Pope dropped his eyes again, lifted a paper-weight with his left
hand, and began to play with it gently as he talked.

"Now, my son, deliver a little discourse. I suggest to you three
heads--what has happened, what is happening, what will happen, with a
peroration as to what should happen."

Percy drew a long breath, settled himself back, clasped the fingers of
his left hand in the fingers of his right, fixed his eyes firmly upon
the cross-embroidered red shoe opposite, and began. (Had he not
rehearsed this a hundred times!)

* * * * *

He first stated his theme; to the effect that all the forces of the
civilised world were concentrating into two camps--the world and God. Up
to the present time the forces of the world had been incoherent and
spasmodic, breaking out in various ways--revolutions and wars had been
like the movements of a mob, undisciplined, unskilled, and unrestrained.
To meet this, the Church, too, had acted through her Catholicity--
dispersion rather than concentration: _franc-tireurs_ had been opposed
to _franc-tireurs_. But during the last hundred years there had been
indications that the method of warfare was to change. Europe, at any
rate, had grown weary of internal strife; the unions first of Labour,
then of Capital, then of Labour and Capital combined, illustrated this
in the economic sphere; the peaceful partition of Africa in the
political sphere; the spread of Humanitarian religion in the spiritual
sphere. Over against this must be placed the increased centralisation of
the Church. By the wisdom of her pontiffs, over-ruled by God Almighty,
the lines had been drawing tighter every year. He instanced the
abolition of all local usages, including those so long cherished by the
East, the establishment of the Cardinal-Protectorates in Rome, the
enforced merging of all friars into one Order, though retaining their
familiar names, under the authority of the supreme General; all monks,
with the exception of the Carthusians, the Carmelites and the Trappists,
into another; of the three excepted into a third; and the classification
of nuns after the same plan. Further, he remarked on the more recent
decrees, establishing the sense of the Vatican decision on
infallibility, the new version of Canon Law, the immense simplification
that had taken place in ecclesiastical government, the hierarchy,
rubrics and the affairs of missionary countries, with the new and
extraordinary privileges granted to mission priests. At this point he
became aware that his self-consciousness had left him, and he began,
even with little gestures, and a slightly raised voice, to enlarge on
the significance of the last month's events.

All that had gone before, he said, pointed to what had now actually
taken place--namely, the reconciliation of the world on a basis other
than that of Divine Truth. It was the intention of God and of His Vicars
to reconcile all men in Christ Jesus; but the corner-stone had once more
been rejected, and instead of the chaos that the pious had prophesied,
there was coming into existence a unity unlike anything known in
history. This was the more deadly from the fact that it contained so
many elements of indubitable good. War, apparently, was now extinct, and
it was not Christianity that had done it; union was now seen to be
better than disunion, and the lesson had been learned apart from the
Church. In fact, natural virtues had suddenly waxed luxuriant, and
supernatural virtues were despised. Friendliness took the place of
charity, contentment the place of hope, and knowledge the place of
faith.

Percy stopped, he had become conscious that he was preaching a kind of
sermon.

"Yes, my son," said the kind voice. "What else?"

What else?... Very well, continued Percy, movements such as these
brought forth men, and the Man of this movement was Julian Felsenburgh.
He had accomplished a work that--apart from God--seemed miraculous. He
had broken down the eternal division between East and West, coming
himself from the continent that alone could produce such powers; he had
prevailed by sheer force of personality over the two supreme tyrants of
life religious fanaticism and party government. His influence over the
impassive English was another miracle, yet he had also set on fire
France, Germany, and Spain. Percy here described one or two of his
little scenes, saying that it was like the vision of a god: and he
quoted freely some of the titles given to the Man by sober, unhysterical
newspapers. Felsenburgh was called the Son of Man, because he was so
pure-bred a cosmopolitan; the Saviour of the World, because he had slain
war and himself survived--even--even--here Percy's voice faltered--even
Incarnate God, because he was the perfect representative