der which other houses were suppressed,
and even received one monk who had obtained permission to go there when
his community fell; but in spite of the apparent encouragement from the
preamble of the bill which stated that "in the great solemn monasteries
... religion was right well kept," it was felt that this act was but the
herald of another which should make an end of Religious Houses
altogether.

But there was a breath of better news later on, when tidings came in the
early summer that Anne was in disgrace. It was well known that it was
her influence that egged the King on, and that there was none so fierce
against the old ways. Was it not possible that Henry might even yet
repent himself, if she were out of the way?

Then the tidings were confirmed, and for a while there was hope.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Nicholas Maxwell rode over to see Chris, and was admitted into one
of the parlours to talk with him.

He seemed furiously excited, and hardly saluted his brother-in-law.

"Chris," he said, "I have come straight from London with great news. The
King's harlot is fallen."

Chris stared.

"Dead?" he said.

"Dead in a day or two, thank God!"

He spat furiously.

"God strike her!" he cried. "She has wrought all the mischief, I
believe. They told me so a year back, but I did not believe it."

"And where is she?"

Then Nicholas told his story, his ruddy comely face bright with
exultation, for he had no room for pity left. The rumours that had come
to Lewes were true. Anne had been arrested suddenly at Greenwich during
the sports, and had been sent straight to the Tower. The King was weary
of her, though she had borne him a child; and did not scruple to bring
the most odious charges against her. She had denied, and denied; but it
was useless. She had wept and laughed in prison, and called on God to
vindicate her; but the process went on none the less. The marriage had
been declared null and void by Dr. Cranmer who had blessed it; and now
she was condemned for sinning against it.

"But she is either his wife," said Chris amazed, "or else she is not
guilty of adultery."

Nicholas chuckled.

"God save us, Chris; do you think Henry can't manage it?"

Then he grew white with passion, and beat the table and damned the King
and Anne and Cranmer to hell together.

Chris glanced up, drumming his fingers softly on the table.

"Nick," he said, "there is no use in that. When is she to die?"

The knight's face flushed again with pleasure, and he showed his teeth
set together.

"Two days," he said, "please God, or three at the most. And she will not
meet those she has sent before her, or John Fisher whose head she had
brought to her--the bloody Herodias!"

"Pray God that she will!" said Chris softly. "They will pray for her at
least."

"Pah!" shouted Nicholas, "an eye for an eye for me!"

Chris said nothing. He was thinking of all that this might mean. Who
could know what might not happen? Nicholas broke in again presently.

"I heard a fine tale," he said, "do you know that the woman is in the
very room where she slept the night before the crowning? Last time it
was for the crown to be put on; now it is for the head to be taken off.
And it is true that she weeps and laughs. They can hear her laugh two
storeys away, I hear."

"Nick," said Chris suddenly, "I am weary of that. Let her alone. Pray
God she may turn!"

Nicholas stared astonished, and a little awed too. Chris used not to be
like this; he seemed quieter and stronger; he had never dared to speak
so before.

"Yes; I am weary of this," said Chris again. "I stormed once at Ralph,
and gained nothing. We do not win by those weapons. Where is Ralph?"

Nicholas knit his lips to keep in the fury that urged him.

"He is with Cromwell still," he said venomously, "and very busy, I hear.
They will be making him a lord soon--but there will be no lady."

Chris had heard of Beatrice's rejection of Ralph.

"He is still busy?"

"Why, yes; he worked long at this bill, I hear."

Chris asked a few more questions, and learned that Ralph seemed fiercer
than ever since the Visitation. He was well-known at Court; had been
seen riding with the King; and it was supposed that he was rising
rapidly in favour every day.

"God help him!" sighed Chris.

The change that had come over Chris was very much marked. Neither a life
in the world would have done it, nor one in the peace of the cloister;
but an alternation of the two. He had been melted by the fire of the
inner life, and braced by the external bitterness of adversity. Ralph's
visit to the priory, culminating in the passionless salutation of him in
the cloister as being a guest and therefore a representative of Christ,
had ended that stage in the development of the monk's character. Chris
was disappointed in his brother, fearful for him and stern in his
attitude towards him; but he was not resentful. He was sincere when he
prayed God to help him.

When Nicholas had eaten and gone, carrying messages to Mary, Chris told
the others, and there was a revival of hope in the house.

Then a few days later came the news of Anne's death and of t