ollected to see the
second envoy leave for Berlin. The hour and place of starting had
been kept secret, on purpose to avoid a crowd; and beyond three
or four from the English College, with half a dozen private
friends of the Cardinal, a few servants, and perhaps a dozen
passers-by who had collected below in curiosity at seeing a
racing-volor attached to one of the disused flying stages on the
hill behind the Vatican--no one else, in the crowds that swarmed
now in the streets and squares of Rome, was even certain that an
envoy was going, still less of his identity.

Monsignor found himself, ten minutes before the start,
standing alone on the alighting-stage, while the Cardinal
still talked below.

As he stood there, now looking out over the city, where beneath
the still luminous sky the lights were already beginning to
kindle, and where in one or two of the larger squares he could
make out the great crowds moving to and fro--now staring at the
long and polished sides of the racing boat that swayed light as a
flower with the buoyancy of the inrushing gas--as he saw all
these things with his outward eyes, he was trying to understand
something of the new impulses and thoughts that surged through
him. He could have given little or no account of the reasons why
he was here; of his hopes or fears or expectations. He was as one
who watches on a sheet shadow-figures whirl past confusedly,
catching a glimpse here of a face or body, now of a fragmentary
movement, that appeared to have some meaning--yet grasping nothing
of the intention or plan of the whole. Or, even better, he was as
one caught in a mill-race, tossed along and battered, yet feeling
nothing acutely, curious indeed as to what the end would be, and
why it had had a beginning, yet fundamentally unconcerned. The
thing was so: there was no more to be said. He knew that it was
necessary that he should be here, about to start for almost
certain death, as that his soul should be inhabiting his body.

But even all these recent happenings had not as yet illuminated
him in the slightest as to the real character of the world that
he found so bewildering. He felt, vaguely, that he ought to have
by now all the pieces of the puzzle, but he was still as far as
ever from being able to fit them into a coherent whole. He just
perceived this--and no more--that the extraordinary tranquillity
of these Catholics in the presence of death was a real
contribution to the problem--as much as the dull earthliness of
the Socialist colony in America. It was not merely Dom Adrian in
particular who had been willing to die without perturbation or
protest; his judges and accusers seemed just as ready when their
turn came. And he--he who had cried out at Christian brutality,
who had judged the world's system by his own and found it
wanting--he feared death; although, so far his fear had not
deterred him from facing it.

He took his place in the narrow cabin in the same mood, following
the Cardinal in after the last good-byes had been said. It was a
tiny place, fitted with a single padded seat on either side
covered with linen and provided with pillows; a narrow table ran
up the centre; and strong narrow windows looked directly from the
sides of the boat. A stern platform, railed in and provided with
sliding glass shutters, gave room to take a few steps of
exercise; but the front of the boat was entirely occupied with
the driver's arrangements. It was a comparatively new type of
boat, he learned from some one with whom he had talked just now,
used solely for racing purposes; and its speed was such that they
would find themselves in Berlin before morning.

The stern door was swung to by one who leaned from the stage.
Still through the glass the Cardinal smiled out at his friends
and waved his hand. Then a bell struck, a vibration ran through
the boat, the stage outside lined with faces suddenly swayed and
then fell into space.

The Cardinal laid his hand on the priest's knee.

"Now let us have a talk," he said.



(IV)

The air that breathed down from the Alps was beginning to cloud
the windows of the cabin before they had finished talking.

The man who had lost his memory, under the tremendous stress of
an emotion of which he was hardly directly conscious at all--the
emotion generated by the knowledge that every whistling mile that
fled past brought him nearer an almost certain death--had
experienced a kind of sudden collapse of his defences such as he
had never contemplated.

He had told everything straight out to this quiet, fatherly
man--his terrors, his shrinking from the unfamiliar atmosphere of
thought to which he had awakened, it seemed, a few months before,
his sense that Christianity had lost its spirit, and, above all,
the strange absence of any definite religious emotion in himself.
He found this difficult to put into words; he had hardly realized
it even to himself.

The Cardinal put one question.

"And yet you are facing death on the understanding that
it is all true?"

"I suppose so."

"Very well, then. That is faith. You need say no more. You have
been to confession?"

"This afternoon."

The