 so charmingly afraid of his
wife. His contempt began to melt as he looked at him and saw those wise
twinkling eyes, and strong humorous mouth, and remembered once more who
he was, and his reputation.

Sir Thomas said grace with great gravity and signed himself reverently
before he sat down. There was a little reading first of the Scriptures
and a commentary on it, and then as dinner went on Ralph began to attend
less and less to his hostess, who, indeed appeared wholly absorbed in
domestic details of the table and with whispering severely to the
servants behind her hand, and to listen and look towards the further end
where Sir Thomas sat in his tall chair, his flapped cap on his head, and
talked to his daughters on either side. Mr. Roper, the man who had come
in with Mrs. More, was sitting opposite Ralph, and seemed to be chiefly
occupied in listening too. A bright-looking tall girl, whom her father
had introduced by the name of Cecily, sat between Ralph and her father.

"Not at all," cried Sir Thomas, in answer to something that Ralph did
not catch, "nothing of the kind! It was Juno that screamed. Argus would
not condescend to it. He was occupied in dancing before the bantams."

Ralph lost one of the few remarks that Mrs. More addressed to him, in
wondering what this meant, and the conversation at the other end swept
round a corner while he was apologising. When he again caught the
current Sir Thomas was speaking of wherries.

"I would love to row a wherry," he said. "The fellows do not know their
fortune; they might lead such sweet meditative lives; they do not, I am
well aware, for I have never heard such blasphemy as I have heard from
wherrymen. But what opportunities are theirs! If I were not your father,
my darling, I would be a wherryman. _Si cognovisses et tu quae ad pacem
tibi_! Mr. Torridon, would you not be a wherryman if you were not Mr.
Torridon?"

"I thought not this morning," said Ralph, "as I came here. It seemed hot
rowing against the stream."

"It is part of the day's work," said More. "When I was Chancellor I
loved nothing more than a hot summer's day in Court, for I thought of my
cool garden where I should soon be walking. I must show you the New
Building after dinner, Mr. Torridon."

Cecily and Margaret presently had a short encounter across the table on
some subject that Ralph did not catch, but he saw Margaret on the other
side flush up and bring her lips sharply together. Sir Thomas leapt into
the breach.

"_Unde leves animae tanto caluere furore?_" he cried, and glanced up at
Ralph to see if he understood the quotation, as the two girls dropped
their eyes ashamed.

"_Pugnavare pares, succubuere pares_," said Ralph by a flash of
inspiration, and looking at the girls.

Sir Thomas's eyes shone with pleasure.

"I did not know you were such a treasure, Mr. Torridon. Now, Master
Cromwell could not have done that."

There fell a silence as that name was spoken, and all at the table eyed
Ralph.

"He was saying as much to me the other day," went on Ralph, excited by
his success. "He told me you knew Horace too well."

"And that my morals were corrupted by him," went on More. "I know he
thinks that, but I had the honour of confuting him the other day with
regard to the flagon and gloves. Now, there is a subject for Martial,
Mr. Torridon. A corrupt statesman who has retired on his ill-gotten
gains disproves an accusation of bribery. Let us call him Atticus
'Attice ... Attice' ...--We might say that he put on the gloves lest his
forgers should be soiled while he drank from the flagon, or something of
the kind."

Sir Thomas's eyes beamed with delight as he talked. To make an apt
classical quotation was like wine to him, but to have it capped
appropriately was like drunkenness. Ralph blessed his stars that he had
been so lucky, for he was no great scholar, and he guessed he had won
his host's confidence.

Dinner passed on quietly, and as they rose from table More came round
and took his guest by the arm.

"You must come with me and see my New Building," he said, "you are
worthy of it, Mr. Torridon."

He still held his arm affectionately as they walked out into the garden
behind the house, and as he discoursed on the joys of a country life.

"What more can I ask of God?" he said. "He has given me means and tastes
to correspond, and what man can say more. I see visions, and am able to
make them realities. I dream of a dovecote with a tiled roof, and
straightway build it; I picture a gallery and a chapel and a library
away from the clack of tongues, and behold there it is. The eye cannot
say to the hand, 'I have no need of thee.' To see and dream without the
power of performance is heart-breaking. To perform without the gift of
imagination is soul-slaying. The man is blessed that hath both eye and
hand, tastes and means alike."

It was a very pleasant retreat that Sir Thomas More had built for
himself at the end of his garden, where he might retire when he wanted
solitude. There was a little entrance hall with a door at one corner
into the chapel, and a long low gallery running out from it, lined with
bookshelves on