er had come up by now; he was dusty and seemed spent. He
was a stranger to the father and son who waited on the steps; but he
looked like a groom, and slipped off his horse deftly and took Sir
Nicholas's bridle.

"Come in Nick," said Sir James. "We can talk in the house."

As the three went up together, with the strange rider at a respectful
distance behind, Nicholas broke out again in one sentence.

"They have done it," he said, "he is dead. Mother of God!"

His whip twitched in his clenching hand. He turned and jerked his head
beckoningly to the man who followed; and the four went on together,
through the hall and into Sir James's parlour. Sir James shut the door.

"Tell us, Nick."

Nicholas stood at the hearth, glaring and shifting.

"This fellow knows--he saw it; tell them, Dick."

The man gave his account. He was one of the servants of Sir Nicholas'
younger brother, who lived in town, and had been sent down to Great
Keynes immediately after the execution that had taken place that
morning. He was a man of tolerable education, and told his story well.

Sir James sat as he listened, with his hand shading his eyes; Nicholas
was fidgetting at the hearth, interrupting the servant now and again
with questions and reminders; and Chris leaned in the dark corner by the
window. There floated vividly before his mind as he listened the setting
of the scene that he had looked upon a few days ago, though there were
new actors in it now.

"It was this morning, sir, on Tower Hill. There was a great company
there long before the time. He came out bravely enough, walking with
the Lieutenant that was his friend, and with a red cross in his hand."

"You were close by," put in Nicholas

"Yes, sir; I was beside the stairs. They shook as he went up; they were
crazy steps, and he told the Lieutenant to have a care to him."

"The words, man, the words!"

"I am not sure, sir; but they were after this fashion: 'See me safe up,
Master Lieutenant; I will shift for myself at the coming down.' So he
got up safe, and stamped once or twice merrily to see if all were firm.
Then he made a speech, sir, and begged all there to pray for him. He
told them that he was to die for the faith of the Catholic Church, as my
Lord of Rochester did."

"Have you heard of my lord's head being taken to Nan Boleyn?" put in
Nicholas fiercely.

Sir James looked up.

"Presently, Nick," he said.

The man went on.

"Master More kneeled down presently at his prayers; and all the folk
kept very quiet. There was not one that cried against him. Then he stood
up again, put off his gown, so that his neck was bare; and passed his
hand over it smiling. Then he told the headsman that it was but a short
one, and bade him be brave and strike straight, lest his good name
should suffer. Then he laid himself down to the block, and put his neck
on it; but he moved again before he gave the sign, and put his beard out
in front--for he had grown one in prison"--

"Give us the words," snarled Nicholas.

"He said, sir, that his beard had done no treason, and need not
therefore suffer as he had to do. And then he thrust out his hand for a
sign--and 'twas done at a stroke."

"God damn them!" hissed Nicholas again as a kind of Amen, turning
swiftly to the fire-place so that his face could not be seen.

There was complete silence for a few seconds. The groom had his eyes
cast down, and stood there--then again he spoke.

"As to my Lord of Rochester's head, that was taken off to the--the
Queen, they say, in a white bag, and she struck it on the mouth."

Nicholas dropped his head against his hand that rested on the wood-work.

"And the body rested naked all day on the scaffold, with the halberd-men
drinking round about; and 'twas tumbled into a hole in Barking
Churchyard that night."

"At whose orders?"

"At Master Cromwell's, sir."

Again there was silence; and again the groom broke it.

"There was more said, sir--" and hesitated.

The old man signed to him to go on.

"They say that my lord's head shone with light each night on the
bridge," said the man reverently; "there was a great press there, I
know, all day, so that the streets were blocked, and none could come or
go. And so they tumbled that into the river at last; at least 'tis
supposed so--for 'twas gone when I looked."

Nicholas turned round; and his eyes were bright and his face fiery and
discoloured.

Sir James stood up, and his voice was broken as he spoke.

"Thank you, my man. You have told your story well."

       *       *       *       *       *

As the groom turned to go out, Sir Nicholas wheeled round swiftly to the
hearth, and buried his face on his arm; and Chris saw a great heaving
begin to shake his broad shoulders.




THE KING'S TRIUMPH--BOOK II




PART I--THE SMALLER HOUSES




CHAPTER I

AN ACT OF FAITH


Towards the end of August Beatrice Atherton was walking up the north
bank of the river from Charing to Westminster to announce to Ralph her
arrival in town on the previous night.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had gone through horrors since the June day on which she had seen
the two brothers together. With Ma