he marriage
of the King with Jane Seymour on the following day. At least Jane was a
lawful wife and queen in the Catholics' eyes, for Katharine too was
dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris had now passed through the minor orders, the sub-diaconate and the
diaconate, and was looking forward to priesthood. It had been thought
advisable by his superiors, in view of the troubled state of the times,
to apply for the necessary dispensations, and they had been granted
without difficulty. So many monks who were not priests had been turned
into the world resourceless, since they could not be appointed to
benefices, that it was thought only fair to one who was already bound by
vows of religion and sacred orders not to hold him back from an
opportunity to make his living, should affairs be pushed further in the
direction of dissolution.

He was looking forward with an extraordinary zeal to the crown of
priesthood. It seemed to him a possession that would compensate for all
other losses. If he could but make the Body of the Lord, lift It before
the Throne, and hold It in his hands, all else was trifling.

There were waves of ecstatic peace again breaking over his soul as he
thought of it; as he moved behind the celebrant at high mass, lifted the
pall of the chalice, and sang the exultant _Ite missa est_ when all was
done. What a power would be his on that day! He would have his finger
then on the huge engine of grace, and could turn it whither he would,
spraying infinite force on this and that soul, on Ralph stubbornly
fighting against God in London, on his mother silent and bitter at home,
on his father anxious and courageous, waiting for disaster, on Margaret
trembling in Rusper nunnery as she contemplated the defiance she had
flung in the King's face.

The Prior had given him but little encouragement; he had sent for him
one day, and told him that he might prepare himself for priesthood by
Michaelmas, for a foreign bishop was coming to them, and leave would be
obtained for him to administer the rite. But he had not said a word of
counsel or congratulation; but had nodded to the young monk, and turned
his sickly face to the papers again on his table.

Dom Anthony, the pleasant stout guest-master, who had preached the
sermon in Christmastide, said a word of comfort, as they walked in the
cloister together.

"You must not take it amiss, brother," he said, "my Lord Prior is beside
himself with terror. He does not know how to act."

Chris asked whether there were any new reason for alarm.

"Oh, no!" said the monk, "but the people are getting cold towards us
here. You have seen how few come to mass here now, or to confession.
They are going to the secular priests instead."

Chris remembered one or two other instances of this growing coldness.
The poor folks who came for food complained of its quality two or three
times; and one fellow, an old pensioner of the house, who had lost a
leg, threw his portion down on the doorstep.

"I will have better than that some day," he had said, as he limped off.
Chris had gathered up the cold lentils patiently and carried them back
to the kitchen.

On another day a farmer had flatly refused a favour to the monk who
superintended the priory-farm.

"I will not have your beasts in my orchard," he had said roughly. "You
are not my masters."

The congregations too were visibly declining, as the guest-master had
said. The great nave beyond the screen looked desolate in the
summer-mornings, as the sunlight lay in coloured patches on the wide
empty pavement between the few faithful gathered in front, and the half
dozen loungers who leaned in the shadow of the west wall--men who
fulfilled their obligation of hearing mass, with a determination to do
so with the least inconvenience to themselves, and who scuffled out
before the blessing.

It was evident that the tide of faith and reverence was beginning to ebb
even in the quiet country towns.

As the summer drew on the wider world too had its storms. A fierce
sermon was preached at the opening of Convocation, by Dr. Latimer, now
Bishop of Worcester, at the express desire of the Archbishop, that
scourged not only the regular but the secular clergy as well. The sermon
too was more furiously Protestant than any previously preached on such
an occasion; pilgrimages, the stipends for masses, image-worship, and
the use of an unknown tongue in divine service, were alike denounced as
contrary to the "pure gospel." The phrases of Luther were abundantly
used in the discourse; and it was evident, from the fact that no public
censure fell upon the preacher, that Henry's own religious views had
developed since the day that he had published his attack on the foreign
reformers.

The proceedings of Convocation confirmed the suspicion that the sermon
aroused. With an astonishing compliance the clergy first ratified the
decree of nullity in the matter of Anne's marriage with the King,
disclaimed obedience to Rome, and presented a list of matters for which
they requested reform. In answer to this last point the King, assisted
by a couple of bishops, sent down to the h