uestion amongst even the most
ignorant that the claim of Jesus had ceased to be either reasonable or
possible. Even the Order that has provided the sinews for this new
movement must cease to exist.

"Dolgorovski, of course, is the difficulty, for it is not certainly
known whether one Cardinal would be considered sufficient for the
propagation of the line; and, although reluctantly, His Honour feels
bound to suggest that at the conclusion of the affair, Dolgorovski,
also, who will not, of course, be with his fellows at Nazareth, should
be mercifully removed from even the danger of a relapse....

"His Honour, then, asks you, gentlemen, as briefly as possible, to state
your views on the points of which I have had the privilege of speaking."

The quiet business-like voice ceased.

He had spoken throughout in the manner with which he had begun; his eyes
had been downcast throughout; his voice had been tranquil and
restrained. His deportment had been admirable.

There was an instant's silence, and all eyes settled steadily again upon
the motionless figure in black and scarlet and the ivory face.

Then Oliver stood up. His face was as white as paper; his eyes bright
and dilated.

"Sir," he said, "I have no doubt that we are all of one mind. I need say
no more than that, so far as I am a representative of my colleagues, we
assent to the proposal, and leave all details in your Honour's hands."

The President lifted his eyes, and ran them swiftly along the rigid
faces turned to him.

Then, in the breathless hush, he spoke for the first time in his strange
voice, now as passionless as a frozen river.

"Is there any other proposal?"

There was a murmur of assent as the men rose to their feet.

"Thank you, gentlemen," said the secretary.



III

It was a little before seven o'clock on the morning of Saturday that
Oliver stepped out of the motor that had carried him to Wimbledon
Common, and began to go up the steps of the old volor-stage, abandoned
five years ago. It had been thought better, in view of the extreme
secrecy that was to be kept, that England's representative in the
expedition should start from a comparatively unknown point, and this old
stage, in disuse now, except for occasional trials of new Government
machines, had been selected. Even the lift had been removed, and it was
necessary to climb the hundred and fifty steps on foot.

It was with a certain unwillingness that he had accepted this post among
the four delegates, for nothing had been heard of his wife, and it was
terrible to him to leave London while her fate was as yet doubtful. On
the whole, he was less inclined than ever now to accept the Euthanasia
theory; he had spoken to one or two of her friends, all of whom declared
that she had never even hinted at such an end. And, again, although he
was well aware of the eight-day law in the matter, even if she had
determined on such a step there was nothing to show that she was yet in
England, and, in fact, it was more than likely that if she were bent on
such an act she would go abroad for it, where laxer conditions
prevailed. In short, it seemed that he could do no good by remaining in
England, and the temptation to be present at the final act of justice in
the East by which land, and, in fact, it was more than likely that if
she were to be wiped out, and Franklin, too, among them--Franklin, that
parody of the Lord of the World--this, added to the opinion of his
colleagues in the Government, and the curious sense, never absent from
him now, that Felsenburgh's approval was a thing to die for if
necessary--these things had finally prevailed. He left behind him at
home his secretary, with instructions that no expense was to be spared
in communicating with him should any news of his wife arrive during his
absence.

It was terribly hot this morning, and, by the time that he reached the
top he noticed that the monster in the net was already fitted into its
white aluminium casing, and that the fans within the corridor and saloon
were already active. He stepped inside to secure a seat in the saloon,
set his bag down, and after a word or two with the guard, who, of
course, had not yet been informed of their destination, learning that
the others were not yet come, he went out again on to the platform for
coolness' sake, and to brood in peace.

London looked strange this morning, he thought. Here beneath him was the
common, parched somewhat with the intense heat of the previous week,
stretching for perhaps half-a-mile--tumbled ground, smooth stretches of
turf, and the heads of heavy trees up to the first house-roofs, set,
too, it seemed, in bowers of foliage. Then beyond that began the serried
array, line beyond line, broken in one spot by the gleam of a
river-reach, and then on again fading beyond eyesight. But what
surprised him was the density of the air; it was now, as old books
related it had been in the days of smoke. There was no freshness, no
translucence of morning atmosphere; it was impossible to point in any
one direction to the source of this veiling gloom, for on all sides it
was the same. Even the sky overhead lacke