 steadily,
looking down at his ring and turning it to catch the light. "But there
is now another matter--I hear he has been practising with the Holy Maid
and hearkening to her ravings, and that my Lord of Rochester is in it
too. But I am not sure of it."

Cromwell stopped, glanced up at Ralph a moment, and then down again.

"I am not sure of it," he said again, "and I wish to be. And I think you
can help me."

Ralph waited patiently, his heart beginning to quicken. This was a great
matter.

"I wish you to go to him," said his master, "and to get him into talk.
But I do not see how it can be managed."

"He knows I am in your service, sir," suggested Ralph.

"Yes, yes," said Cromwell a little impatiently, "that is it. He is no
fool, and will not talk. This is what I thought of. That you should go
to him from me, and feign that you are on his side in the matter. But
will he believe that?" he ended gloomily, looking at the other
curiously.

There was silence for a minute, while Cromwell drummed his fingers
softly on the table. Then presently Ralph spoke.

"There is this, sir," he said. "I might speak to him about my brother
Chris who, as I told you, has gone to Lewes at the Maid's advice, and
then see what Master More has to say."

Cromwell still looked at him.

"Yes," he said, "that seems reasonable. And for the rest--well, I will
leave that in your hands."

They talked a few minutes longer about Sir Thomas More, and Cromwell
told the other what a quiet life the ex-Chancellor had led since his
resignation of office, of his house at Chelsea, and the like, and of the
decision that he had apparently come to not to mix any further in public
affairs.

"There is thunder in the air," he said, "as you know very well, and
Master More is no mean weather-prophet. He mis-liked the matter of the
Lady Katharine, and Queen Anne is no friend of his. I think he is wise
to be quiet."

Ralph knew perfectly well that this tolerant language did not represent
Cromwell's true attitude towards the man of whom they were speaking, but
he assented to all that was said, and added a word or two about Sir
Thomas More's learning, and of the pleasant manner in which he himself
had been received when he had once had had occasion to see him before.

"He was throwing Horace at me," said the other, with a touch of
bitterness, "the last time that I was there. I do not know which he
loves best, that or his prayers."

Again Ralph recognised an animus. Cromwell had suffered somewhat from
lack of a classical education.

"But it is a good thing to love the classics and devotion," he went on
presently with a sententious air, "they are solaces in time of trouble.
I have found that myself."

He glanced up at the other and down again.

"I was caught saying our Lady matins one day," he said, "when the
Cardinal was in trouble. I remember I was very devout that morning."

He went on to talk of Wolsey and of his relations with him, and Ralph
watched that heavy smooth face become reminiscent and almost
sentimental.

"If he had but been wiser;" he said. "I have noticed again and again the
folly of wise men. There is always clay mixed with gold. I suppose
nothing but the fire that Fryth denied can purge it out; and my lord's
was ambition."

He wagged his head in solemn reprobation, and Ralph did not know whether
to laugh or to look grave. Then there fell a long silence, and Cromwell
again fell to fingering his signet-ring, taking it off his thumb and
rolling it on the smooth oak, and at last stood up with a brisker air.

"Welt," he said, "I have a thousand affairs, and my son Gregory is
coming here soon. Then you will see about that matter. Remember I wish
to know what Master More thinks of her, that--that I may know what to
think."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph understood sufficiently clearly, as he walked home in the evening
light, what it was that his master wanted. It was no less than to catch
some handle against the ex-chancellor, though he had carefully abstained
from saying so. Ralph recognised the adroitness, and saw that while the
directions had been plain and easy to understand, yet that not one word
had been spoken that could by any means be used as a handle against
Cromwell. If anyone in England at that time knew how to wield speech it
was his master; it was by that weapon that he had prevailed with the
King, and still kept him in check; it was that weapon rashly used by his
enemies that he was continually turning against them, and under his
tutoring Ralph himself had begun to be practised in the same art.

Among other causes, too, of his admiration for Cromwell, was the
latter's extraordinary business capacity. There was hardly an affair of
any importance in which he did not have a finger at least, and most of
them he held in the palm of his hand, and that, not only in the mass but
in their minutest details. Ralph had marvelled more than once at the
minutiæ that he had seen dotted down on the backs of old letters lying
on his master's table. Matters of Church and State, inextricably
confused to other eyes, was simple to this man; he understood
intu