talked. He seemed the very incarnation of the
slow inaction that was so infinitely trying to these anxious souls.

The three laymen did not even know the crime with which Ralph was
charged, but they soon learnt that the technical phrase for it was
misprision of treason.

"Mr. Torridon was arrested, I understand," said the lawyer, "by order of
Council. He would have been arrested in any case. He was known to be
privy to my Lord Essex's schemes. You inform me that he destroyed
evidence. That will go against him if they can prove it."

He drew the quill softly through his lips, and then fell to fingering it
again, as the others stared at him.

"However," went on Mr. Herries, "that is not our affair now. There will
be time for that. Our question is, when will he be charged, and how? My
Lord Essex may be tried by a court, or attainted in Parliament. I should
suppose the latter. Mr. Torridon will be treated in the same way. If it
be the former, we can do nothing but wait and prepare our case. If it be
the latter, we must do our utmost to keep his name out of the bill."

He went on to explain his reasons for thinking that a bill of attainder
would be brought against Cromwell. It was the customary method, he said,
for dealing with eminent culprits, and its range had been greatly
extended by Cromwell himself. At this moment three Catholics lay in the
Tower, attainted through the statesman's own efforts, for their supposed
share in a conspiracy to deliver up Calais to the invaders who had
threatened England in the previous year. Feeling, too, ran very high
against Cromwell; the public would be impatient of a long trial; and a
bill of attainder would give a readier outlet to the fury against him.

This then was the danger; but they could do nothing, said the lawyer, to
avert it, until they could get information. He would charge himself with
that business, and communicate with them as soon as he knew.

"And then?" asked Chris, looking at him desperately, for the cold
deliberate air of Mr. Herries gave him a terrible sense of the
passionless process of the law.

"I was about to speak of that," said the lawyer. "If it goes as I think
it will, and Mr. Torridon's name is suggested for the bill, we must
approach the most powerful friends we can lay hold on, to use their
influence against his inclusion. Have you any such, sir?" he added,
looking at Sir James sharply over the quill.

The old man shook his head.

"I know no one," he said.

The lawyer pursed his lips.

"Then we must do the best we can. We can set aside at once all of my
Lord Essex's enemies--and--and he has many now. Two names come to my
mind. Master Ralph Sadler--the comptroller; and my Lord of Canterbury."

"Ah!" cried Chris, dropping his hand, "my Lord of Canterbury! My brother
has had dealings with him."

Sir James straightened himself in his chair.

"I will ask no favour of that fellow," he said sternly.

The lawyer looked at him with a cocked eyebrow.

"Well, sir," he said, "if you will not you will not. But I cannot
suggest a better. He is in high favour with his Grace; they say he has
already said a word for my Lord Essex--not much--much would be too much,
I think; but still 'twas something. And what of Master Sadler?"

"I know nothing of him," faltered the old man.

There was silence a moment.

"Well, sir," said Mr. Herries, "you can think the matter over. I am for
my Lord of Canterbury; for the reasons I have named to you. But we can
wait a few days. We can do nothing until the method of procedure is
known."

Then he went; promising to let them know as soon as he had information.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rumours began to run swiftly through the City. It was said, though
untruly at that time, that Cromwell had addressed a letter to the King
at Henry's own request, explaining his conduct, utterly denying that he
had said certain rash words attributed to him, and that His Majesty was
greatly affected by it. There was immense excitement everywhere; a crowd
assembled daily outside Westminster Hall; groups at every corner of the
streets discussed the fallen minister's chances; and shouts were raised
for those who were known to be his enemies, the Duke of Norfolk, Rich,
and others--as they rode through to the Palace.

Meanwhile Ralph's friends could do little. Nicholas rode down once or
twice to see the Lieutenant of The Tower, and managed to extract a
promise that Ralph should hear of their presence in London; but he could
not get to see him, or hear any news except that he was in good health
and spirits, and was lodged in a private cell.

Then suddenly one afternoon a small piece of news arrived from Mr.
Herries to the effect that Cromwell was to be attainted; and anxiety
became intense as to whether Ralph would be included. Sir James could
eat nothing at supper, but sat crumbling his bread, while Beatrice
talked almost feverishly in an attempt to distract him. Finally he rose
and went out, and the others sat on, eyeing one another, anxious and
miserable.

In desperation Nicholas began to talk of his visit to the Tower, of the
Lieutenant's timidity, and hi