London Charterhouse as a terror to the others; their heads, he had
heard, were on London Bridge.

Chris walked slowly as he listened, holding tight under his scapular the
scrap of rough white cloth he had picked up near the cauldron, drinking
in every detail, and painting it into the mental picture that was
forming in his mind; but there was much more in the picture than the
other guessed.

The priest was a plain man, with a talent for the practical, and knew
nothing of the vision that the young monk beside him was seeing--of the
air about the gallows crowded with the angels of the Agony and Passion,
waiting to bear off the straggling souls in their tender experienced
hands; of the celestial faces looking down, the scarred and glorious
arms stretched out in welcome; of Mary with her mother's eyes, and her
virgins about her--all ring above ring in deepening splendour up to the
white blinding light above, where the Everlasting Trinity lay poised in
love and glory to receive and crown the stalwart soldiers of God.




CHAPTER XI

A CLOSING-IN


Ralph kept his resolution to pretend to try and save Sir Thomas More,
and salved his own conscience by protesting to Beatrice that his efforts
were bound to fail, and that he had no influence such as she imagined.
He did certainly more than once remark to Cromwell that Sir Thomas was a
pleasant and learned man, and had treated him kindly, and once had gone
so far as to say that he did not see that any good would be served by
his death; but he had been sharply rebuked, and told to mind his own
business; then, softening, Cromwell had explained that there was no
question of death for the present; but that More's persistent refusal to
yield to the pressure of events was a standing peril to the King's
policy.

This policy had now shaped itself more clearly. In the autumn of '34 the
bill for the King's supremacy over the Church of England began to take
form; and Ralph had several sights of the documents as all business of
this kind now flowed through Cromwell's hands, and he was filled with
admiration and at the same time with perplexity at the adroitness of the
wording. It was very short, and affected to assume rather than to enact
its object.

"Albeit the King's Majesty justly and rightfully is and ought to be," it
began, "the supreme head of the Church of England, and so is recognised
by the clergy of this realm in their Convocations, yet, nevertheless,
for corroboration and confirmation thereof ... and to repress and extirp
all errors, heresies and other enormities ... be it enacted by authority
of this present Parliament that the King our sovereign lord ... shall be
taken, accepted, and reputed the only supreme head in earth of the
Church of England, called _Anglicans Ecclesia_." The bill then proceeded
to confer on him a plenitude of authority over both temporal and
spiritual causes.

There was here considerable skill in the manner of its drawing up, which
it owed chiefly to Cromwell; for it professed only to re-state a matter
that had slipped out of notice, and appealed to the authority of
Convocation which had, truly, under Warham allowed a resolution to the
same effect, though qualified by the clause, "as far as God's law
permits," to pass in silence.

Ralph was puzzled by it: he was led to believe that it could contain no
very radical change from the old belief, since the clergy had in a sense
already submitted to it; and, on the other hand, the word "the only
supreme head in earth" seemed not only to assert the Crown's civil
authority over the temporalities of the Church, but to exclude
definitely all jurisdiction on the part of the Pope.

"It is the assertion of a principle," Cromwell said to him when he asked
one day for an explanation; "a principle that has always been held in
England; it is not intended to be precise or detailed: that will follow
later."

Ralph was no theologian, and did not greatly care what the bill did or
did not involve. He was, too, in that temper of inchoate agnosticism
that was sweeping England at the time, and any scruples that he had in
his more superstitious moments were lulled by the knowledge that the
clergy had acquiesced. What appeared more important to him than any
hair-splittings on the exact provinces of the various authorities in
question, was the necessity of some step towards the crippling of the
spiritual empire whose hands were so heavy, and whose demands so
imperious. He felt, as an Englishman, resentful of the leading strings
in which, so it seemed to him, Rome wished to fetter his country.

The bill passed through parliament on November the eighteenth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph lost no opportunity of impressing upon Beatrice how much he had
risked for the sake of her friend in the Tower, and drew very moving
sketches of his own peril.

The two were sitting together in the hall at Chelsea one winters evening
soon after Christmas. The high panelling was relieved by lines of
greenery, with red berries here and there; a bunch of mistletoe leaned
forward over the sloping mantelpiece, and there was an acrid smell of
holl