 as to how was it possible for a layman to hold
the keys of the kingdom of heaven was enough, and without any further
evidence they were sent to the Tower.

Then, again, he was present in the Court of the Rolls a few days later
when Dom Laurence, of Beauvale, and Dom Webster, of Axholme, were
examined once more. There were seven or eight others present, laymen and
ecclesiastics, and the priors were once more sent back to the Tower.

And so examination after examination went on, and no answer could be got
out of the monks, but that they could never reconcile it with their
conscience to accept the King to be what the Act of Supremacy declared
that he was.

Ralph's curiosity took him down to the Charterhouse one day shortly
before the execution of the priors; he had with him an order from
Cromwell that carried him everywhere he wished to go; but he did not
penetrate too deeply. He was astonished at the impression that the place
made on him.

As he passed up the Great Cloister there was no sound but from a bird or
two singing in the afternoon sunlight of the garth; each cell-door, with
its hatch for the passage of food, was closed and silent; and Ralph felt
a curious quickening of his heart as he thought of the human life passed
in the little houses, each with its tiny garden, its workshop, its two
rooms, and its paved ambulatory, in which each solitary lived. How
strangely apart this place was from the buzz of business from which he
had come! And yet he knew very well that the whole was as good as
condemned already.

He wondered to himself how they had taken the news of the tragedy that
was beginning--those white, demure men with shaved heads and faces, and
downcast eyes. He reflected what the effect of that news must be; as it
penetrated each day, like a stone dropped softly into a pool, leaving no
ripple. There, behind each brown door, he fancied to himself, a strange
alchemy was proceeding, in which each new terror and threat from outside
was received into the crucible of a beating heart and transmuted by
prayer and welcome into some wonderful jewel of glory--at least so these
poor men believed; and Ralph indignantly told himself it was nonsense;
they were idlers and dreamers. He reminded himself of a sneer he had
heard against the barrels of Spanish wine that were taken in week by
week at the monastery door; if these men ate no flesh too, at least they
had excellent omelettes.

But as he passed at last through the lay-brothers' choir and stood
looking through the gates of the Fathers' choir up to the rich altar
with its hangings and its posts on either side crowned with gilded
angels bearing candles, to the splendid window overhead, against which,
as in a glory, hung the motionless silk-draped pyx, the awe fell on him
again.

This was the place where they met, these strange, silent men; every
panel and stone was saturated with the prayers of experts, offered three
times a day--in the night-office of two or three hours when the world
was asleep; at the chapter-mass; and at Vespers in the afternoon.

His heart again stirred a little, superstitiously he angrily told
himself, at the memory of the stories that were whispered about in town.

Two years ago, men said, a comet had been seen shining over the house.
As the monks went back from matins, each with his lantern in his hand,
along the dark cloister, a ray had shot out from the comet, had glowed
upon the church and bell-tower, and died again into darkness. Again, a
little later, two monks, one in his cell-garden and the other in the
cemetery, had seen a blood-red globe, high and menacing, hanging in the
air over the house.

Lastly, at Pentecost, at the mass of the Holy Ghost, offered at the end
of a triduum with the intention of winning grace to meet any sacrifice
that might be demanded, not one nor two, but the whole community,
including the lay-brothers outside the Fathers' Choir, had perceived a
soft whisper of music of inexpressible sweetness that came and went
overhead at the Elevation. The celebrant bowed forward in silence over
the altar, unable to continue the mass, the monks remained petrified
with joy and awe in their stalls.

Ralph stared once more at the altar as he remembered this tale; at the
row of stalls on either side, the dark roof overhead, the glowing glass
on either side and in front--and asked himself whether it was true,
whether God had spoken, whether a chink of the heavenly gate had been
opened here to let the music escape.

It was not true, he told himself; it was the dream of a man mad with
sleeplessness, foolish with fasting and discipline and vigils: one had
dreamed it and babbled of it to the rest and none had liked to be less
spiritual or perceptive of divine manifestations.

A brown figure was by the altar now to light the candles for Vespers; a
taper was in his hand, and the spot of light at the end moved like a
star against the gilding and carving. Ralph turned and went out.

Then on the fourth of May he was present at the execution of the three
priors and the two other priests at Tyburn. There was an immense crowd
there, nearly the whole Co