 them."

The priest frowned at him, and hurried up to Ralph.

"Yes, father," said Ralph, "I am another of them."

The canon explained that the stable was full, that they were
exceedingly sorry, but that they were but a poor house; and that he was
glad to say there was an outhouse round the corner outside where the
beasts could be lodged.

"But as for yourself, sir," he said, "I know not what to do. We have
every room full. You are a friend of Dr. Layton's, sir?"

"I am one of the Visitors," said Ralph. "You must make room."

The priest sucked his lips in.

"I see nothing for it," he said, "Dr. Layton and you, sir, must share a
room."

Ralph threw a leg over the saddle and slipped to the ground.

"Where is he?" he asked.

"He is with my Lord Abbot, sir," he said. "Will you come with me?"

The canon led the way across the court, his white fur tails swinging as
he went, and took Ralph through the cloister into one of the parlours.
There was a sound of a high scolding voice as he threw open the door.

"What in God's name are ye for then, if ye have not hospitality?"

Dr. Layton turned round as Ralph came in. He was flushed with passion;
his mouth worked, and his eyes were brutal.

"See this, Mr. Torridon," he said. "There is neither room for man or
beast in this damned abbey. The guest house has no more than half a
dozen rooms, and the stable--why, it is not fit for pigs, let alone the
horses of the King's Visitors."

The Abbot, a young man with a delicate face, very pale now and
trembling, broke in deprecatingly.

"I am very sorry, gentlemen," he said, looking from one to the other,
"but it is not my fault. It is in better repair than when I came to it.
I have done my best with my Lord Abbot of Welbeck; but we are very poor,
and he can give me no more."

Layton growled at him.

"I don't say it's you, man; we shall know better when we have looked
into your accounts; but I'll have a word to say at Welbeck."

"We are to share a room, Dr. Layton," put in Ralph "At least--"

The doctor turned round again at that, and stormed once more.

"I cannot help it, gentlemen," retorted the Abbot desperately. "I have
given up my own chamber already. I can but do my best."

Ralph hastened to interpose. His mind revolted at this coarse bullying,
in spite of his contempt at this patient tolerance on the part of the
Abbot.

"I shall do very well, my Lord Abbot," he said. "I shall give no
trouble. You may put me where you please."

The young prelate looked at him gratefully.

"We will do our best, sir," he said. "Will you come, gentlemen, and see
your chambers?"

Layton explained to Ralph as they went along the poor little cloister
that he himself had only arrived an hour before.

"I had a rare time among the monks," he whispered, "and have some tales
to make you laugh."

       *       *       *       *       *

He grew impatient again presently at the poor furnishing of the rooms,
and kicked over a broken chair.

"I will have something better than that," he said. "Get me one from the
church."

The young Abbot faced him.

"What do you want of us, Dr. Layton? Is it riches or poverty? Which
think you that Religious ought to have?"

The priest gave a bark of laughter.

"You have me there, my lord," he said; and nudged Ralph.

They sat down to supper presently in the parlour downstairs, a couple of
dishes of meat, and a bottle of Spanish wine. Dr. Layton grew voluble.

"I have a deal to tell you, Mr. Torridon," he said, "and not a few
things to show you,--silver crosses and such like; but those we will
look at to-morrow. I doubt whether we shall add much to it here, though
there is a relic-case that would look well on Master Cromwell's table;
it is all set with agates. But the tales you shall have now. My servant
will be here directly with the papers."

A man came in presently with a bag of documents, and Layton seized them
eagerly.

"See here, Mr. Torridon," he said, shaking the papers on to the table,
"here is a story-box for the ladies. Draw your chair to the fire."

Ralph felt an increasing repugnance for the man; but he said nothing;
and brought up his seat to the wide hearth on which the logs burned
pleasantly in the cold little room.

The priest lifted the bundle on to his lap, crossed his legs
comfortably, with a glass of wine at his elbow, and began to read.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a while Ralph wondered how the man could have the effrontery to call
his notes by the name of evidence. They consisted of a string of obscene
guesses, founded upon circumstances that were certainly compatible with
guilt, but no less compatible with innocence. There was a quantity of
gossip gathered from country-people and coloured by the most flagrant
animus, and even so the witnesses did not agree. Such sentences as "It
is reported in the country round that the prior is a lewd man" were
frequent in the course of the reading, and were often the chief evidence
offered in a case.

In one of the most categorical stories, Ralph leaned forward and
interrupted.

"Forgive me, Master Layton," he said, "but who is Master What's-his-name
who says all t