   Through God his grace
    For to purchase
    Old wealth and peace
      Of the spiritualty!

"You could hear it up and down the lines, sung with weeping and
shouting."

He described how they came to York, and how the Mayor was forced to
admit them. They stayed there a couple of days; and Aske published his
directions for all the ejected Religious to return to their houses.

"I went to a little cell near by--I forget its name--to help some canons
to settle in again, whose friendship I had made. I had told them then
that my mind was to enter Religion once more, and they took me very
willingly. We got there at night. The roof was gone from the dormitory,
but we slept there for all that--such of us as could sleep--for I heard
one of them sobbing for joy as he lay there in his old corner under the
stars; and we sang mass in the morning, as well as we could. The priest
had an old tattered vestment that hardly hung on his shoulders; and
there was no cross but one that came from a pair of beads, and that we
hung over the altar. When I left them again, they were at their office
as before, and busy roofing the house with old timbers; for my lord
Cromwell had all the lead. And all their garden was trampled; but they
said they would do very well. The village-folk were their good friends,
and would bring them what they needed."

He described his journey to Doncaster; the furious excitement of the
villages he passed through, and the news that reached him hour after
hour as to the growing vastness of Aske's forces.

"There were thirty thousand, I heard, on the banks of the Don on one
side; for my lords Nevill and Lumley and others had ridden in with St.
Cuthbert his banner and arms, and five thousand men, besides those that
came in from all the country. And on the further side was my Lord
Shrewsbury for the King, with the Duke and his men. Master Aske had all
he could do to keep his men back from being at them. Some of the young
sparks were as terriers at a rat-hole. There was a parley held on the
bridge, for Norfolk knew well that he must gain time; and Aske sent his
demands to his Grace, and that was the mistake--"

The man beat one hand into the other and looked round with a kindling
force--

"That was the mistake! He was too loyal for such work, and did not guess
at their craft. Well, while we waited there, our men began to make off;
their farms were wanting them, and their wives and the rest, and we
melted. Master Aske had to be everywhere at once, it was no fault of
his. My Lord Derby was marching up upon the houses again, and seeking to
drive the monks out once more. But there was not an act of violence done
by our men; not a penny-piece taken or a house burned. They were
peaceable folk, and asked no more than that their old religion should be
given back to them, and that they might worship God as they had always
done."

He went on to explain how the time had been wasted in those fruitless
negotiations, and how the force dwindled day by day. Various answers
were attempted by the King, containing both threats and promises, and in
these, as in all else the hand of Cromwell was evident. Finally, towards
the end of November, the insurgents gathered again for another meeting
with the King's representatives at Doncaster, summoned by beacons on the
top of the high Yorkshire moors, and by the reversed pealing of the
church bells.

"We had a parley among ourselves at Pomfret first, and had a great
to-do, though I saw little of it; and drew up our demands; and then set
out for Doncaster again. The duke was there, with the King's pardon in
his hand, in the Whitefriars; and a promise that all should be as we
asked. So we went back to Pomfret, well-pleased, and the next day on St.
Thomas' hill the herald read the pardon to us all; and we, poor fools,
thought that his Grace meant to keep his word--"

The monk looked bitterly round, sneering with his white strong teeth set
together like a savage dog's; and there was silence for a moment. The
Sub-Prior looked nervously round the faces of his subjects, for this was
treasonable talk to hear.

Then the man went on. He himself it seemed had retired again to the
little cell where he had seen the canons settled in a few weeks
previously; and heard nothing of what was going forward; except that the
heralds were going about the country, publishing the King's pardon to
all who had taken part in the Rebellion, and affixing it to the
market-cross in each town and village, with touching messages from the
King relating to the grief which he had felt on hearing that his dear
children believed such tales about him.

Little by little, however, the discontent began to smoulder once more,
for the King's pledges of restoration were not fulfilled; and Cromwell,
who was now recognised to be the inspirer of all the evil done against
Religion, remained as high as ever in the royal favour. Aske, who had
been to the King in person, and given him an account of all that had
taken place, now wrote to him that there was a danger of a further
rising if the delay continued, for there were no signs yet of the
promised free pa