tioningly.

"Oh, well," said the King; and thrust out his hand to be kissed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris did not know how they got out of the room. They kissed hands
again; the old man muttered out his thanks; but he seemed bewildered by
the rush of events, and the supreme surprise. Chris, as he backed away
from the presence, saw for the last time those narrow royal eyes fixed
on him, still bright with amusement and expectancy, and the great
red-fringed cheeks creased about the tiny mouth with an effort to keep
back laughter. Why was the King laughing, he wondered?

They waited a few minutes in the ante-room for the order that the
Archbishop had whispered to them should be sent out immediately. They
said nothing to one another--but the three sat close, looking into one
another's eyes now and again in astonishment and joy, while Mr. Herries
stood a little apart solemn and happy at the importance of the rôle he
had played in the whole affair, and disdaining even to look at the rest
of the company who sat on chairs and watched the party.

The secretary came to them in a few minutes, and handed them the order.

"My Lord of Canterbury is detained," he said; "he bade me tell you
gentlemen that he could not see you again."

Sir James was standing up and examining the order.

"For four?" he said.

"Why, yes," said the secretary, and glanced at the four men.

Chris put his hand on his father's arm.

"It is all well," he whispered, "say nothing more. It will do for
Beatrice."




CHAPTER XII

THE TIDINGS AT THE TOWER


They debated as they stood on the steps in the sunlight five minutes
later, as to whether they should go straight to the Tower, or back to
Charing and take Beatrice with them. They spoke softly to one another,
as men that have come out from darkness to light, bewildered by the
sense of freedom and freshness that lay round them. Instead of the
musk-scented rooms, the formidable dominating presence, the suspense and
the terror, the river laughed before them, the fresh summer breeze blew
up it, and above all Ralph was free, and that, not only of his prison,
but of his hateful work. It had all been done in those few sentences;
but as yet they could not realise it; and they regarded it, as they
regarded the ripples at their feet, the lapping wherry, and far-off
London city, as a kind of dazzling picture which would by and bye be
found to move and live.

The lawyer congratulated them, and they smiled back and thanked him.

"If you will put me to shore at London Bridge," said Mr. Herries--"I
have a little business I might do there--that is, if you will be going
so far."

Chris looked at his father, whose arm he was holding.

"We must take her with us," he said. "She has earned it."

Sir James nodded, dreamily, and turned to the boat.

"To the London Bridge Stairs first," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a kind of piquant joy in their hearts as they crept up past
the Tower, and saw its mighty walls and guns across the water. He was
there, but it was not for long. They would see him that day, and
to-morrow--to-morrow at the latest, they would all leave it together.

There were a hundred plans in the old man's mind, as he leaned gently
forward and back to the motion of the boat and stared at the bright
water. Ralph and he should live at Overfield again; his son would surely
be changed by all that had come to him, and above all by his own
response to the demands of loyalty. They should learn to understand one
another better now--better than ever before. The hateful life lay behind
them of distrust and contempt; Ralph would come back to his old self,
and be again as he had been ten years back before he had been dazzled
and drugged by the man who was to die next day. Then he thought of that
man, and half-pitied him even then; those strong walls held nothing but
terror for him--terror and despair; the scaffold was already going up on
Tower Hill--and as the old man thought of it he leaned forward and tried
to see over the wharf and under the trees where the rising ground lay;
but there was nothing to be seen--the foliage hid it.

Chris, also silent beside him, was full of thoughts. He would go abroad
now, he knew, with Margaret, as they had intended. The King's order was
the last sign of God's intention for him. He would place Margaret with
her own sisters at Bruges, and then himself go on to Dom Anthony and
take up the life again. He knew he would meet some of his old brethren
in Religion--Dom Anthony had written to say that three or four had
already joined him at Cluny; the Prior--he knew--had turned his back for
ever on the monastic life, and had been put into a prebendal stall at
Lincoln.

And meanwhile he would have the joy of knowing that Ralph was free of
his hateful business; the King would not employ him again; he would live
at home now, and rule Overfield well: he and his father together. Ah!
and what if Beatrice consented to rule it with him! Surely now--He
turned and looked at his father as he thought of it, and their eyes met.

Chris leaned a little closer.

"Beatrice!" he