clamation to
the Socialists.

As Monsignor Masterman carne up from breakfast, he felt his arm
taken, and there was Father Jervis, his clever old face lit up by
excitement. He too carried a morning paper under his arm.

"I want to have a talk with you about this," he said, "Have you
seen the Cardinal yet?"

"I'm to see him at ten. I feel perfectly helpless. I don't
understand in the least."

"Have you read it through yet?"

"No, I glanced at it only. I wish you'd help me through, father."

The old priest nodded.

"Well, we'll read every word of it first,"

As they passed into the sitting-room, the prelate slipped forward
the little door-plate that announced that he was within, but
engaged. Then, without a word, they sat down, and there was dead
silence for twenty minutes, broken only by the rustle of turning
pages, and an occasional murmur of raised voices from the groups
that still wandered round the Cathedral--pools of that vast river
that had filled every channel last night. Father Jervis uttered a
small exclamation once or twice.

Monsignor laid down the sheets at last and sighed.

"Finished, father?"

"Oh, yes! I've been re-reading. Now let us talk."

Father Jervis turned back to the front page, settled the paper on
his knee, and leaned back.

"The main point is this," he said. "Repressive measures will be
passed in Germany, as soon as the act can be got through. That
will mean that Germany will be brought up into line with the rest
of Europe, America, Australia, and half Asia, throughout her
whole empire. That will mean again that our own repressive
measures will really and truly be put into force. At present they
are largely inoperative."

"How do you mean?"

"Well, we've got laws against things like blasphemy and heresy,
and particularly the dissemination of heresy, and all the rest;
but they're practically never put into force except in very
flagrant cases. For instance, Socialist and infidel speeches can
be delivered freely in what are called private houses, which are
really clubs. Well, that sort of thing cannot possibly go on. The
infidels have complained of tyranny, of course--that's part of
the game. As a matter of fact they've been perfectly free, unless
they gave actually public offence. They've distributed their
pamphlets and done what they liked. Well, of course it was
impossible to be really strict so long as Germany was lax. They
could always meet in Berlin, and have their pamphlets printed
there; and we could do nothing. But, you see, the whole
situation's changed with the Emperor's conversion. He's one of
those heavy, consistent men--quite stupid, of course--who act
their principles right out to the farthest detail. So long as he
was agnostic he allowed almost anything to go on. And now he's a
Christian he'll understand that that must stop. He's responsible
before God, you see, as the ruler----"

"But the people. What of the people?"

Father Jervis stared.

"The people? Why, they're the ruled, aren't they?"

"But--er--democracy----"

"Democracy? Why, no one believes in that, of course. How could they?"

"Go on, father."

"But, Monsignor, you must get that clear. You must remember we're
really educated people, not half-educated."

Monsignor twitched with irritation. He could not understand even yet.

"Father, do you mean that the people won't resent this sudden
change of front on the part of the Emperor? Certainly, if
they're really liberally-minded they'll tolerate his following
his own conscience. But how can they justify his suddenly
dictating to them?"

The priest leaned forward a little. His old manner came back, and
once more he spoke to Monsignor as to a child.

"Monsignor, listen carefully, please. I assure you you're
completely out of date. What the German people will say now is
this: 'Up to now the Emperor has been agnostic, and therefore he
has not allowed any laws against heresy. Now he is a Catholic,
and therefore he will cause laws to be passed against heresy.'"

"And they won't resent that?" snapped the prelate, now
thoroughly irritated.

Father Jervis lifted a pacific hand.

"My dear friend, the Germans--like all other educated
nations--believe that their ruler is meant by God to rule them.
And they also believe that Catholicism is the true religion. Very
well, then. When a ruler is Catholic they obey him implicitly,
because they know that he will be kept straight in all matters of
right and wrong by the Pope, who is the Representative of God. In
non-vital matters they will obey him because he is their ruler,
and therefore they are bound in conscience to do so."

"And when the ruler is not Catholic?"

"Again, in non-vital matters they will obey him. And in vital
matters--supposing, that is, he passed a law against Christianity
(which, of course, nowadays no man could certainly do)--then they
would appeal to the Pope, and, if the law was enforced, disobey
it and take the penalties."

"Then the Pope is the real ruler--the final court of appeal?"

"Certainly. Who else should be? Isn't he the Vicar of Christ?"

There was a pause.

"There," said the priest more easily. "And now we really must g