rm that was so sorely needed. She trusted him
already; and it would not need much persuasion he thought to convince
her mind as well as her heart.

Of course Lewes Priory would be a great prize, and there would be many
applicants for it, and he realized that more than ever as he came up to
its splendid gateway and saw the high tower overhead, and the long tiled
roofs to the right; but his own relations with Cromwell were of the
best, and he decided that at least no harm could result from asking.

It was with considerable excitement that he dismounted in the court, and
saw the throng of Dr. Layton's men going to and fro. As at Durford, so
here, his superior had arrived before him, and the place was already
astir. The riding-horses had been bestowed in the stables, and the
baggage-beasts were being now unloaded before the door of the
guest-house; there were servants going to and fro in Dr. Layton's
livery, with an anxious-faced monk or two here and there among them, and
a buzz and clatter rose on all sides. One of Dr. Layton's secretaries
who had been at Durford, recognised Ralph and came up immediately,
saluting him deferentially.

"The doctor is with the Sub-Prior, sir," he said. "He gave orders that
you were to be brought to him as soon as you arrived, Mr. Torridon."

Ralph followed him into the guest-house, and up the stairs up which
Chris had come at his first arrival, and was shown into the parlour.
There was a sound of voices as they approached the door, and as Ralph
entered he saw at once that Dr. Layton was busy at his work.

"Come in, sir," he cried cheerfully from behind the table at which he
sat. "Here is desperate work for you and me. No less than rank treason,
Mr. Torridon."

A monk was standing before the table, who turned nervously as Ralph came
in; he was a middle-aged man, grey-haired and brown-faced like a
foreigner, but his eyes were full of terror now, and his lips trembling
piteously.

Ralph greeted Dr. Layton shortly, and sat down beside him.

"Now, sir," went on the other, "your only hope is to submit yourself to
the King's clemency. You have confessed yourself to treason in your
preaching, and even if you did not, it would not signify, for I have the
accusation from the young man at Farley in my bag. You tell me you did
not know it was treason; but are you ready, sir, to tell the King's
Grace that?"

The monk's eyes glanced from one to the other anxiously. Ralph could see
that he was desperately afraid.

"Tell me that, sir," cried the doctor again, rapping the table with his
open hand.

"I--I--what shall I do, sir?" stammered the monk.

"You must throw yourself on the King's mercy, reverend father. And as a
beginning you must throw yourself on mine and Mr. Torridon's here. Now,
listen to this."

Dr. Layton lifted one of the papers that lay before him and rend it
aloud, looking severely at the monk over the top of it between the
sentences. It was in the form of a confession, and declared that on such
a date in the Priory Church of St Pancras at Lewes the undersigned had
preached treason, although ignorant that it was so, in the presence of
the Prior and community; and that the Prior, although he knew what was
to be said, and had heard the sermon in question, had neither forbidden
it beforehand nor denounced it afterwards, and that the undersigned
entreated the King's clemency for the fault and submitted himself
entirely to his Grace's judgment.

"I--I dare not accuse my superior," stammered the monk.

Dr. Layton glared at him, laying the paper down.

"The question is," he cried, "which would you sooner offend--your Prior,
who will be prior no longer presently, or the King's Grace, who will
remain the King's Grace for many years yet, by the favour of God, and
who has moreover supreme rights of life and death. That is your choice,
reverend father."--He lifted the paper by the corners.--"You have only
to say the word, sir, and I tear up this paper, and write my own report
of the matter."

The monk again glanced helplessly at the two men. Ralph had a touch of
contentment at the thought that this was Christopher's superior, ranged
like a naughty boy at the table, and looked at him coldly. Dr. Layton
made a swift gesture as if to tear the paper, and the Sub-Prior threw
out his hands.

"I will sign it, sir," he said, "I will sign it."

When the monk had left the room, leaving his signed confession behind
him, Dr. Layton turned beaming to Ralph.

"Thank God!" he said piously. "I do not know what we should have done if
he had refused; but now we hold him and his prior too. How have you
fared, Mr. Torridon?"

Ralph told him a little of his experiences since his last report, of a
nunnery where all but three had been either dismissed or released; of a
monastery where he had actually caught a drunken cellarer unconscious by
a barrel, and of another where he had reason to fear even worse crimes.

"Write it all down, Mr. Torridon," cried the priest, "and do not spare
the adjectives. I have some fine tales for you myself. But we must
despatch this place first. We shall have grand sport in the
chapter-house to-morrow. T