e for her to enter the
Religious Life, except by going abroad; and so long as there was the
faintest hope of the convents being restored in England, both she and
her father and brother shrank from the step. And the hope was increased
by the issue of the Six Articles in the following May, by which
Transubstantiation was declared to be a revealed dogma, to be held on
penalty of death by burning; and communion in one kind, the celibacy of
the clergy, the perpetuity of the vow of chastity, private masses, and
auricular confession were alike ratified as parts of the Faith held by
the Church of which Henry had made himself head.

Yet as time went on, and there were no signs of the restoration of the
Religious Houses, Chris began to wonder again as to what was best for
Margaret. Perhaps until matters developed it would be well for her to
have some friend in whom she could confide, even if only to relax the
strain for a few weeks. He went to his father one day in the autumn and
laid his views before him.

Sir James nodded and seemed to understand.

"Do you think Mary would be of any service?"

Chris hesitated.

"Yes, sir, I think so--but--"

His father looked at him.

"It is a stranger I think that would help her more. Perhaps another
nun--?"

"My dear lad, I dare not ask another nun. Your mother--"

"I know," said Chris.

"Well, I will think of it," said the other.

A couple of days later Sir James took him aside after supper into his
own private room.

"Chris," he said, "I have been thinking of what you said. And Mary shall
certainly come here for Christmas, with Nick; but--but there is someone
else too I would like to ask."

He looked at his son with an odd expression.

Chris could not imagine what this meant.

"It is Mistress Atherton," went on the other. "You see you know her a
little--at least you have seen her; and there is Ralph. And from all
that I have heard of her--her friendship with Master More and the rest,
I think she might be the very friend for poor Meg. Do you think she
would come, Chris?"

Chris was silent. He could not yet fully dissociate the thought of
Beatrice from the memory of the time when she had taken Ralph's part.
Besides, was it possible to ask her under the circumstances?

"Then there was one more thing that I never told you;" went on his
father, "there was no use in it. But I went to see Mistress Atherton
when she was betrothed to Ralph. I saw her in London; and I think I may
say we made friends. And she has very few now; she keeps herself aloof.
Folks are afraid of her too. I think it would be a kindness to her. I
could not understand how she could marry Ralph; and now that is
explained."

Chris was startled by this news. His father had not breathed a word of
it before.

"She made me promise," went on Sir James, "to tell her if Ralph did
anything unworthy. It was after the first news had reached her of what
the Visitors were doing. And I told her, of course, about Rusper. I
think we owe her something. And I think too from what I saw of her that
she might make her way with your mother."

"It might succeed," said Chris doubtfully, "but it is surely difficult
for her to come--"

"I know--yes--with Ralph and her betrothal. But if we can ask her,
surely she can come. I can tell her how much we need her. I would send
Meg to Great Keynes, if I dared, but I dare not. It is not so safe there
as here; she had best keep quiet."

They talked about it a few minutes more, and Chris became more inclined
to it. From what he remembered of Beatrice and the impression that she
had made on him in those few fierce minutes in Ralph's house he began to
see that she would probably be able to hold her own; and if only
Margaret would take to her, the elder girl might be of great service in
establishing the younger. It was an odd and rather piquant idea, and
gradually took hold of his imagination. It was a very extreme step to
take, considering that she had broken off her betrothal to the eldest
son of the house; but against that was set the fact that she would not
meet him there; and that her presence would be really valued by at least
four-fifths of the household.

It was decided that Lady Torridon should be told immediately; and a day
or two later Sir James came to Chris in the garden to tell him that she
had consented.

"I do not understand it at all," said the old man, "but your mother
seemed very willing. I wonder--"

And then he stopped abruptly.

The letter was sent. Chris saw it and the strong appeal it contained
that Beatrice should come to the aid of a nun who was pining for want of
companionship. A day or two later brought down the answer that Mistress
Atherton would have great pleasure in coming a week before Christmas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Margaret had a fit of shyness when the day came for her arrival. It was
a clear frosty afternoon, with a keen turquoise sky overhead, and she
wandered out in her habit down the slope to the moat, crossed the
bridge, glancing at the thin ice and the sedge that pierced it, and came
up into the private garden. She knew she could hear the sounds of wheels
from