 this?" he said deliberately.

"Oliver," cried the girl, turning to him abruptly, "this is the priest I
saw---"

"A priest!" said the other, and came forward a step. "Why, I thought---"


Percy drew a breath to steady that maddening vibration in his throat.

"Yes, I am a priest," he said.

Again the whimpering broke out from the bed; and Percy, half turning
again to silence it, saw the girl mechanically loosen the clasp of the
thin dust cloak over her white dress.

"You sent for him, mother?" snapped the man, with a tremble in his
voice, and with a sudden jerk forward of his whole body. But the girl
put out her hand.

"Quietly, my dear," she said. "Now, sir---"

"Yes, I am a priest," said Percy again, strung up now to a desperate
resistance of will, hardly knowing what he said.

"And you come to my house!" exclaimed the man. He came a step nearer,
and half recoiled. "You swear you are a priest?" he said. "You have been
here all this evening?"

"Since midnight."

"And you are not---" he stopped again.

Mabel stepped straight between them.

"Oliver," she said, still with that air of suppressed excitement, "we
must not have a scene here. The poor dear is too ill. Will you come
downstairs, sir?"

Percy took a step towards the door, and Oliver moved slightly aside.
Then the priest stopped, turned and lifted his hand.

"God bless you!" he said simply, to the muttering figure in the bed.
Then he went out, and waited outside the door.

He could hear a low talking within; then a compassionate murmur from the
girl's voice; then Oliver was beside him, trembling all over, as white
as ashes, and made a silent gesture as he went past him down the stairs.

* * * * *

The whole thing seemed to Percy like some incredible dream; it was all
so unexpected, so untrue to life. He felt conscious of an enormous shame
at the sordidness of the affair, and at the same time of a kind of
hopeless recklessness. The worst had happened and the best--that was his
sole comfort.

Oliver pushed a door open, touched a button, and went through into the
suddenly lit room, followed by Percy. Still in silence, he pointed to a
chair, Percy sat down, and Oliver stood before the fireplace, his hands
deep in the pockets of his jacket, slightly turned away.

Percy's concentrated senses became aware of every detail of the
room--the deep springy green carpet, smooth under his feet, the straight
hanging thin silk curtains, the half-dozen low tables with a wealth of
flowers upon them, and the books that lined the walls. The whole room
was heavy with the scent of roses, although the windows were wide, and
the night-breeze stirred the curtains continually. It was a woman's
room, he told himself. Then he looked at the man's figure, lithe, tense,
upright; the dark grey suit not unlike his own, the beautiful curve of
the jaw, the clear pale complexion, the thin nose, the protruding curve
of idealism over the eyes, and the dark hair. It was a poet's face, he
told himself, and the whole personality was a living and vivid one. Then
he turned a little and rose as the door opened, and Mabel came in,
closing it behind her.

She came straight across to her husband, and put a hand on his shoulder.

"Sit down, my dear," she said. "We must talk a little. Please sit down,
sir."

The three sat down, Percy on one side, and the husband and wife on a
straight-backed settle opposite.

The girl began again.

"This must be arranged at once," she said, "but we must have no tragedy.
Oliver, do you understand? You must not make a scene. Leave this to me."

She spoke with a curious gaiety; and Percy to his astonishment saw that
she was quite sincere: there was not the hint of cynicism.

"Oliver, my dear," she said again, "don't mouth like that! It is all
perfectly right. I am going to manage this."

Percy saw a venomous look directed at him by the man; the girl saw it
too, moving her strong humorous eyes from one to the other. She put her
hand on his knee.

"Oliver, attend! Don't look at this gentleman so bitterly. He has done
no harm."

"No harm!" whispered the other.

"No--no harm in the world. What does it matter what that poor dear
upstairs thinks? Now, sir, would you mind telling us why you came here?"

Percy drew another breath. He had not expected this line.

"I came here to receive Mrs. Brand back into the Church," he said.

"And you have done so?"

"I have done so."

"Would you mind telling us your name? It makes it so much more
convenient."

Percy hesitated. Then he determined to meet her on her own ground.

"Certainly. My name is Franklin."

"Father Franklin?" asked the girl, with just the faintest tinge of
mocking emphasis on the first word.

"Yes. Father Percy Franklin, from Archbishop's House, Westminster," said
the priest steadily.

"Well, then, Father Percy Franklin; can you tell us why you came here? I
mean, who sent for you?"

"Mrs. Brand sent for me."

"Yes, but by what means?"

"That I must not say."

"Oh, very good.... May we know what good comes of being 'received into
the Church?'"

"By being received into the Church, the soul is reconciled to God."

"Oh! (Oliver, be quiet.) An