o his
ear. Then he turned.

"His Eminence wishes to have a word with you, Monsignor,
on two matters."

Monsignor stood up.

"I'll come now, if it's convenient," he said. "I have to be at
Westminster at twelve."

The secretary spoke again through the telephone.

"His Eminence is ready," he said.

The Cardinal looked up as the priest came in a minute later.

"Ah! good morning, Monsignor. Yes, sit down there. There are just
two matters I want to have a word with you on. The first is as
regards a heresy-trial of a priest."

Monsignor bowed. It was his first experience of the kind, so
far as he could remember; and he did not yet fully understand
all that it meant.

"I wish you to select the judges. You'll look up the procedure,
if you forget? A Dominican must be on it, of course; so you
must communicate with the Provincial. The other two must be
seculars, as the accused is a Religious. He has elected to be
tried in England."

"Yes, your Eminence."

"He has behaved very reasonably, and refuses to take advantage of
the _Ne invitus_ clause."

"I forget at this moment," began Monsignor, vaguely conscious
that he had heard of this before.

"Oh! that gives him the right to suppress the book before
publication. It's part of the new legislation. He has sent the
thesis of his book, privately printed, to Rome, and it has been
condemned. He refuses to withdraw, as he is perfectly confident
of his orthodoxy. I understand that the book is not yet
completely finished, but he has his thesis clear enough. It is on
the subject of the miraculous element in religion."

"I beg your Eminence's pardon, but is the author a Benedictine
by any chance?"

The Cardinal smiled.

"Yes: I was coming to that. His name is Dom Adrian Bennett. He
is--or rather ought to be--a Westminster monk, but his return has
been deferred for the present."

"I met him at Lourdes, your Eminence."

"Ah! He is a very clever young man, and at the name time perfectly
courageous. . . . Well, you'll look up the procedure, if you're
not perfectly clear? And I should wish to have the names of the
judges by tomorrow night. The Canon Theologian of the diocese may
not be well enough to act. But you will make arrangements."

"Yes, your Eminence."

"The second matter is exceedingly important." (The Cardinal began
to play with the pen that lay on his desk.) "And no rumour of it
must get out from this house. It may be made public at any
moment, and I wish you to know beforehand in order that you may
not be taken by surprise. Well, it is this. I have had
information that the Emperor of Germany will be received into the
Catholic Church to-night. I needn't tell you what that means. He
is quite fearless and quite conscientious; and there is not the
slightest doubt that he will, sooner or later, make it impossible
for the Socialists to congregate any longer in Berlin. That will
mean either civil war in Germany--(I hear the Socialists have
been in readiness for this for some time past)--or it will mean
their dispersal everywhere. Europe, at any rate, will have to
deal with them. However, that's in the future. The important
thing at the present is that we should be able to show our full
strength when the time comes. There will be thanksgivings
throughout England, of course, as soon as the news is published,
and I wish you to be in readiness to make what arrangements are
necessary. It was the Lourdes miracle, which you witnessed, that
has finished the affair. As you know, the Emperor has been on the
edge of this for months past."

The Cardinal spoke quietly and diplomatically enough; but the
other could see how deeply moved he was by this tremendous
development. The Emperor's position had been the one flaw in the
Catholic organization of Europe--and indeed of the world. Now the
last stone was laid, and the arch was complete. The single
drawback was that no statesman or prophet could conjecture with
certainty what the effect on the Socialists would be.

"And how are you, Monsignor?" asked the Cardinal suddenly,
smiling at him.

"I am getting on very well, your Eminence!"

"I should like to say that, for myself, I am more than
satisfied," went on the other. "You seem to me to have regained
all your old grip on things--and in some points to have more than
regained it. I have written to Rome----" (he broke off).

"It's the details that still trouble me, your Eminence. For
instance, in this heresy-trial, I cannot remember the procedure,
or the penalties, or anything else."

"That'll all come back," smiled the Cardinal. "After all, the
principles are the point. Well, I mustn't detain you. You're to
be at Westminster at twelve."

"Yes, your Eminence. We've nearly finished now. The monks are
very well satisfied. But the main body of them do not come to
Westminster until they formally re-enter. Cardinal Campello has
written to say that he will be with us on the 20th for certain."

"That is very good. . . . Then good morning, Monsignor."



(II)

It was nearly midnight before Monsignor Masterman pushed away the
book that lay before him and leaned back in his chair. He felt
sick and dazed at what he had read.

F