be wholly himself if
he looked that man in the face.

He was surprised to hear words of English uttered. He looked up
again, and there was Hardy speaking, from beside the
President's chair.

"Monsignor, you would not answer me just now. Now that I am
speaking in the Council's name, will you consent to do so?"

"I will answer what I think right to answer."

There was a touch of amusement in Hardy's voice as he went on.

"You need not be afraid, Monsignor. We do not extort answers by
the rack. I only wished to know if you would be reasonable."

The priest said nothing.

"Very good, then. . . . First we will tell you our intentions. At
midnight, as you know, we keep our word, and the Emperor will have
to go the way of the others. It is regrettable, but the Christians
do not seem to understand even yet that we are in earnest. You
will have to be present at that scene, I am sorry to say; but you
can comfort yourself by ministering to your co-religionist. He has
not had a priest admitted to him since his arrest.

"Immediately afterwards you will be set at liberty, and put on
board the air-boat on which you travelled from Rome, with the same
driver who brought you here, on one single condition. That
condition is that you go straight to the Holy Father, tell him all
that you have seen, and take with you one or two little objects."

He paused and beckoned to some one behind. A man came forward
with a little box which he laid on the table. Hardy opened it.

"This is the box you are to take. Yes; I see that you recognize
them. They are the biretta, the skullcap, the cross, and the ring
of the late Cardinal Bellairs. There are also in this box the
ring and a medal belonging to the late Prince Otteone. . . . You
will take these with you as pledges of what you say. . . . Will
you consent to do this?"

The priest bowed. For the moment he was unable to speak.

"You will also tell the Holy Father," went on the other,
replacing, as he spoke, the things in the box, "what you have
seen of our dispositions. You will say that you saw us entirely
resolute and unafraid. We do not fear anybody, Monsignor--not
anything at all; I think you understand that by now.

"You will have a letter, of course, to take with you. It will
contain our final terms. Because--(and I assure you that you are
the first of the outside world to hear this news)--because we
have decided to extend our patience for one more week. We shall,
during that week, in order to prove the genuineness of our
intentions, make a raid upon a certain city and, we hope, destroy
it. (Naturally, I shall not inform you where that city stands.)
And if, at the end of that week, our former terms are not
accepted, we shall carry out our promises to the full. You may
also add," he went on more deliberately, "that our party is
represented in every capital of Europe, and that these may be
expected to act in the same way as that in which we have acted,
as soon as the week expires. We have no objection to telling you
this: our plans are completely made, and no precautions on your
side can hinder them. Is that clear, Monsignor?"

"Yes," said the priest.

"You are satisfied that we mean what we say?"

"I suppose so."

Hardy's manner changed a little. Up to now he had been speaking
coldly and sharply, except where once or twice a slightly
ironical tone had come into his voice. Now he bent forward a
little with his hands upon the table, and his tone became a
trifle friendly.

"Now there are just one or two questions that the Council wish me
to put to you."

Monsignor glanced up at the circle of watching faces, and as he
looked at the President, he could have sworn that a look of
displeasure came over the man's face.

"Well, our first question is this (I dare say you will not answer
it; but if you will oblige us, we shall be grateful): Can you
tell us whether, when you left Rome, the Holy Father, or the
European Powers, showed any signs of yielding?"

The priest drew a breath.

"I am absolutely sure," he said quietly, "that they had no idea
of yielding, and that they never will."

"Why did they send envoys then?"

"They were willing to make other concessions."

"What were these concessions?"

Monsignor hesitated.

"I am not an envoy; I have no power to say."

"Do you know what they were?"

"Yes."

"Why will you not say? Is it not the wish of the Powers to
come to terms?"

"It was their wish."

"Do you mean that it is so no longer?"

"I cannot imagine it being their wish any longer."

"Why?"

"Because you murdered the two envoys they sent," said the
priest, beginning suddenly to shake all over with uncontrollable
nervous excitement.

"Have you any reason for saying that?"

"I know what I would do myself under such circumstances."

"And that is----"

The priest straightened himself, and seized the rail before him
to steady himself.

"I would wipe out of existence every soul that was concerned in those
murders. I would have no more civilized dealings with savages."

There was a sudden movement and murmur in the circle on the
platform. From the intentness with which they had followed the
questions and answers, Mon