rter King-at-Arms came through, bland and smiling,
his puffed silk sleeves brushing against the doorpost as he passed. A
face like a mask, smooth and expressionless, followed him, and nodded to
the Archbishop.

Cranmer turned slightly to his party, again made that little movement,
and went straight through.

Chris followed with Mr. Herries.




CHAPTER XI

THE KING'S HIGHNESS


As Chris knelt with the others, and the door closed behind him, he was
aware of a great room with a tall window looking on to the river on his
left, tapestry-hung walls, a broad table heaped with papers in the
centre, a high beamed ceiling, and the thick carpet under his knees.

For a moment he did not see the King. The page who had beckoned them in
had passed across the room, and Chris's eyes followed him out through an
inner door in the corner.

Then, still on his knees, he turned his eyes to see the Archbishop going
towards the window, and up the step that led on to the dais that
occupied the floor of the oriel.

Then he saw the King.

       *       *       *       *       *

A great figure was seated opposite the side door at which they had
entered on the broad seat that ran round the three sides of the window.
The puffed sleeves made the shoulders look enormous; a gold chain lay
across them, with which the gross fingers were playing. Beneath, the
vast stomach swelled out into the slashed trunks, and the scarlet legs
were crossed one over the other. On the head lay a broad plumed velvet
cap, and beneath it was the wide square face, at once jovial and solemn,
with the narrow slits of eyes above, and the little pursed mouth fringed
by reddish hair below, that Chris remembered in the barge years before.
The smell of musk lay heavy in the air.

Here was the monstrous carrion-beast then at last, sunning himself and
waiting.

       *       *       *       *       *

So the party rested a moment or two, while the Archbishop went across to
the dais; he knelt again and then stood up and said a word or two
rapidly that Chris could not hear.

Henry nodded, and turned his bright narrow eyes on to them; and then
made a motion with his hand. The Archbishop turned round and repeated
the gesture; and Chris rose in his place as did the others.

"Master Torridon, your Grace," explained the Archbishop, with a
deferential stoop of his shoulders. "Your Grace will remember--"

The King nodded abruptly, and thrust his hand out.

Chris touched his father behind.

"Go forward," he whispered; "kiss hands."

The old man went forward a hesitating step or two. The Archbishop
motioned sharply, and Sir James advanced again up to the dais, sank
down, and lifted the hand to his lips, and fell back for the others.

When Chris's turn came, and he lifted the heavy fingers, he noticed for
a moment a wonderful red stone on the thumb, and recognised it. It was
the Regal of France that he had seen years before at his visit to St.
Thomas's shrine at Canterbury. In a flash, too, he remembered Cromwell's
crest as he had seen it on the papers at Lewes--the demi-lion holding up
the red-gemmed ring.

Then he too had fallen back, and the Archbishop was speaking.

"Your Grace will remember that there is a Mr. Ralph Torridon in the
Tower--an agent of Mr. Cromwell's--"

The King's face moved slightly, but he said nothing.

--"Who is awaiting trial for destroying evidence. It is that, at least,
your Grace, that is asserted against him. But it has not been proved.
Master Torridon here tells me, your Highness, that it cannot be proved,
but that he wishes to acknowledge it freely on his son's behalf."

Henry's eyes shot back again at the old man, ran over the others, and
settled again on Cranmer's face, who was standing beside him with his
back to the window.

"He is here to plead for your Grace's clemency. He wishes to lay before
your Grace that his son erred through over-faithfulness to Mr.
Cromwell's cause; and above all that the evidence so destroyed has not
affected the course of justice--"

"God's Body!" jarred in the harsh voice suddenly, "it has not. Nor shall
it."

Cranmer waited a moment with downcast eyes; but the King was silent
again.

"Master Torridon has persuaded me to come with him to your Grace to
speak for him. He is not accustomed--"

"And who are these fellows?"

Chris felt those keen eyes running over him.

"This is Master Nicholas Maxwell," explained the Archbishop, indicating
him. "Master Torridon's son-in-law; and this, Mr. Herries--"

"And the priest?" asked the King.

"The priest is Sir Christopher Torridon, living with his father at
Overfield."

"Ha! has he always lived there then?"

"No, your Grace," said Cranmer smoothly, "he was a monk at Lewes until
the dissolution of the house."

"I have heard somewhat of his name," mused Henry. "What is it, sir, that
I have beard of you?"

"It was perhaps Mr. Ralph Torridon's name that your Grace--" began
Cranmer.

"Nay, nay, it was not. What was it, sir?"

Chris's heart was beating in his ears like a drum now. It had come,
then, that peril that had always been brooding on the horizon, and which
he had begun to despise. He had thou