
large horizons. In fact it seemed as if there were no horizons.
On all sides there stretched out illimitable space, for eternity
(with its corollaries) was fully as effective in it as was time.
Those with whom he mixed, however little he might share their
emotions, at any rate talked as if death was no more than an
incident in life. Secretly he distrusted the reality of this
confidence; but at least it appeared to be there. But with these
folks all was different. These frankly made their plans for this
world, and this world only. Good government, stability, good
bodily health, the propagation and education of children,
equality in possessions and opportunities--these were their ideas
of good; and better government, greater stability, more perfect
health, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and more uniform
equality, their ideals.

So he pondered, over and over again, trying to understand why it
was that he was at home with neither party. With his old friends
he felt himself incapable of their certitudes and aspirations;
with these new people, viewed for the first time _en masse_, he
felt life resting on him like a stifling blanket. He told himself
bitterly that he resembled the child's Amphibian, which could not
live on the land and died in the water.

He watched mechanically the vault of heaven broaden and brighten
with the sunrise behind, and the waste beneath presently to show
lines and patches and enclosures as they approached Boston
harbour. And his heart sank as each mile was passed, and as
presently against the clear sky there stood up the roofs and
domes and chimneys of the socialistic Canaan.



(IV)

It was three or four days before he could again form any coherent
picture to himself of what this new life would mean when once it
was really under way.

He was lodged in the Government buildings, adapted a few years
before from the old temple of the Christian Scientists; and each
day in the rotunda he sat hour after hour with keen-faced
Americans, and the few Europeans who had accompanied the
emigration boats that now streamed in continually.

He flung himself into the dreary work, such as it was, with all
his power; for though he had little responsibility, he was there
as the accredited agent of the English ecclesiastical
authorities, and his business was to show as much alacrity and
sympathy as possible.

The city was, indeed, a scene of incredible confusion; and a
very strong force of police was needed to prevent open friction
between the belated and aggrieved Catholics for whom Boston
would in future be impossible as a home, and who had not yet
faced the need of migrating, and the new, very dogmatic
inhabitants who already regarded the city as their own. All
legal arrangements had, of course, been made before the first
emigrants set foot on the continent; but the redistribution of
the city, the sale of farms, the settling of interminable
disputes between various nationalities--all these things, sifted
although they were through agents and officials, yet came up to
the central board in sufficient numbers to occupy the members
for a full nine hours a day.

   *   *   *   *   *

It was at the end of the fourth day that Monsignor went round the
city in a car, partly to get some air, and partly to see for
himself how things were settling down.

Of course, as he told himself afterwards, he scarcely had a fair
opportunity of judging how a Socialist State would be when the
machinery was in running order. Yet it seemed to him that, making
all allowances for confusion and noise and choked streets and the
rest, underneath it all was a spirit strangely and drearily
unlike that to which he was becoming accustomed in Europe. The
very faces of the people seemed different.

He stopped for a while in the quarter to which the English had
been assigned--that which in old Boston had been, he learned,
the Italian quarter. Here, in the little square where he halted,
everything was surprisingly in order. The open space, paved with
concrete, was unoccupied by any signs of moving in; the houses
were trim and neat, new painted for the most part; and people
seemed to be going about their business with an air of quiet
orderliness. Certainly American arrangements, he thought, were
marvellously efficient, enabling as they did some fifteen
hundred persons to settle down into new houses within the space
of four days. (He had learned something, while he sat on the
central board, of the elaborate system of tickets and officials
and enquiry offices by which such miraculous swiftness had been
made possible.)

Here at least they were an orderly population, going in and out of
the houses, visiting in one corner of the square the vast general
store that had been provided beforehand, presenting their pledges,
which, at any rate for the present, were to take the place of the
European money that the emigrants had brought with them.

He halted the car here, and leaning forward, began to look
round him carefully.

The first thing that struck him was a negative emotion--a
sense that something external was lacking. He presently
perceived what this was.

I