ions on the
subject that had very considerably affected the normal view in Ralph's
eyes. In that section of society where new ideas are generated and to
which Ralph himself belonged, there were very odd tales being told; and
it was beginning to be thought possible that monasticism had
over-reached itself, and that in trying to convert the world it had
itself been converted by the world. Ralph was proud enough of the honour
of his family to wonder whether it was an unmixed gain that his own
brother should join such ranks as these. And lastly there were the facts
that he had learnt from his association with Cromwell that made him
hesitate more than ever in giving Chris his sympathy. He had been
thinking these points over in the parlour the night before when the
others had left him, and during the day in the intervals of the sport;
and he was beginning to come to the conclusion that all things
considered he had better just acquiesce in the situation, and neither
praise nor blame overmuch.

It was a sleepy afternoon. The servants had all gone by now, and the
horn-blowings and noises had died away in the direction of the mill;
there was no leisure for stags to bray, as they crouched now far away in
the bracken, listening large-eyed and trumpet-eared for the sounds of
pursuit; only the hum of insect life in the hot evening sunshine filled
the air; and Ralph began to fall asleep, his back against a fallen
trunk.

Then he suddenly awakened and saw his brother-in-law, black against the
sky, looking down at him, from the saddle.

"Well?" said Ralph, not moving.

Nicholas began to explain. There were a hundred reasons, it seemed, for
his coming home empty-handed; and where were his men?

"They are all gone home," said Ralph, getting up and stretching himself.
"I waited for you It is all over."

"You understand," said Nicholas, putting his horse into motion, and
beginning to explain all over again, "you understand that it had not
been for that foul hound yelping, I should have had him here. I never
miss such a shot; and then when we went after him--"

"I understand perfectly, Nick," said Ralph. "You missed him because you
did not shoot straight, and you did not catch him because you did not go
fast enough. A lawyer could say no more."

Nicholas threw back his head and laughed loudly, for the two were good
friends.

"Well, if you will have it," he said, "I was a damned fool. There! A
lawyer dare not say as much--not to me, at any rate."

Ralph found his man half a mile further on coming to meet him with his
horse, and he mounted and rode on with Nicholas towards the mill.

"I have something to tell you," he said presently. "Chris is to be a
monk."

"Mother of God!" cried Nicholas, half checking his horse, "and when was
that arranged?"

"Last night," went on Ralph. "He went to see the Holy Maid at St.
Sepulchre's, and it seems that she told him he had a vocation; so there
is an end of it."

"And what do you all think of it?" asked the other.

"Oh! I suppose he knows his business."

Nicholas asked a number of questions, and was informed that Chris
proposed to go to Lewes in a month's time. He was already twenty-three,
the Prior had given his conditional consent before, and there was no
need for waiting. Yes, they were Cluniacs; but Ralph believed that they
were far from strict just at present. It need not be the end of Chris so
far as this world was concerned.

"But you must not say that to him," he went on, "he thinks it is heaven
itself between four walls, and we shall have a great scene of farewell.
I think I must go back to town before it takes place: I cannot do that
kind of thing."

Nicholas was not attending, and rode on in silence for a few yards,
sucking in his lower lip.

"We are lucky fellows, you and I," he said at last, "to have a monk to
pray for us."

Ralph glanced at him, for he was perfectly grave, and a rather intent
and awed look was in his eyes.

"I think a deal of that," he went on, "though I cannot talk to a
churchman as I should. I had a terrible time with my Lord of Canterbury
last year, at Otford. He was not a hunter like this one, and I knew not
what else to speak of."

Ralph's eyes narrowed with amusement.

"What did you say to him?" he asked.

"I forget," said Nicholas, "and I hope my lord did. Mary told me I
behaved like a fool. But this one is better. I hear. He is at Ashford
now with his hounds."

They talked a little more about Chris, and Ralph soon saw on which side
Nicholas ranged himself. It was an unfeigned pleasure to this hunting
squire to have a monk for a brother-in-law; there was no knowing how
short purgatory might not be for them all under the circumstances.

It was evident, too, when they came up with the others a couple of miles
further on, that Nicholas's attitude towards the young man had undergone
a change. He looked at him with a deep respect, refrained from
criticising his bloodless hands, and was soon riding on in front beside
him, talking eagerly and deferentially, while Ralph followed with Mary
and his father.

"You have heard?" he said to her presently.

"Father has just told me," she s