ime should be run out and he see God face to face. And Ralph would
represent him before men and carry on the line, and hand on the house to
a third generation--Ralph, at whom he had felt so sorely puzzled of
late, for he seemed full of objects and ambitions for which the father
had very little sympathy, and to have lost almost entirely that delicate
relation with home that was at once so indefinable and so real. But he
comforted himself by the thought that his elder son was not wholly
wasting time as so many of the country squires were doing round about,
absorbed in work that a brainless yeoman could do with better success.
Ralph at least was occupied with grave matters, in Cromwell's service
and the King's, and entrusted with high secrets the issue of which both
temporal and eternal it was hard to predict. And, no doubt, the knight
thought, in time he would come back and pick up the strands he had
dropped; for when a man had wife and children of his own to care for,
other businesses must seem secondary; and questions that could be
ignored before must be faced then.

But he thought with a little anxiety of his wife, and wondered whether
his elder son had not after all inherited that kind of dry rot of the
soul, in which the sap and vigour disappear little by little, leaving
the shape indeed intact but not the powers. When he had married her,
thirty-five years before, she had seemed to him an incarnate mystery of
whose key he was taking possession--her silence had seemed pregnant with
knowledge, and her words precious pieces from an immeasurable treasury;
and then little by little he had found that the wide treasury was empty,
clean indeed and capacious, but no more, and above all with no promise
of any riches as yet unperceived. Those great black eyes, that high
forehead, those stately movements, meant nothing; it was a splendid
figure with no soul within. She did her duty admirably, she said her
prayers, she entertained her guests with the proper conversation, she
could be trusted to behave well in any circumstances that called for
tact or strength; and that was all. But Ralph would not be like that; he
was intensely devoted to his work, and from all accounts able in its
performance; and more than that, with all his impassivity he was capable
of passion; for his employer Sir Thomas Cromwell was to Ralph's eyes,
his father had begun to see, something almost more than human. A word
against that master of his would set his eyes blazing and his voice
trembling; and this showed that at least the soul was not more than
sleeping, or its powers more than misdirected.

And meanwhile there was Chris; and at the thought the father lifted his
eyes to the gallery, and saw the faint outline of his son's brown head
against the whitewash.




CHAPTER II

A FORETASTE OF PEACE


It was not until the party was riding home the next day that Sir
Nicholas Maxwell and his wife were informed of Chris' decision.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had had a fair day's sport in the two estates that marched with one
another between Overfield and Great Keynes, and about fifteen stags had
been killed as well as a quantity of smaller game.

Ralph had ridden out after the party had left, and had found Sir
Nicholas at the close of the afternoon just as the last drive was about
to take place; and had stepped into his shelter to watch the finish. It
was a still, hot afternoon, and the air over the open space between the
copse in which they stood and the dense forest eighty yards away danced
in the heat.

Ralph nodded to his brother-in-law, who was flushed and sunburnt, and
then stood behind, running his eyes up and down that sturdy figure with
the tightly-gaitered legs set well apart and the little feathered cap
that moved this way and that as the sportsman peered through the
branches before him. Once he turned fierce eyes backwards at the whine
of one of the hounds, and then again thrust his hot dripping face into
the greenery.

Then very far away came a shout, and a chorus of taps and cries followed
it, sounding from a couple of miles away as the beaters after sweeping
a wide circle entered the thick undergrowth on the opposite side of the
wood. Sir Nicholas' legs trembled, and he shifted his position a little,
half lifting his strong spliced hunting bow as he did so.

For a few minutes there was silence about them except for the distant
cries, and once for the stamp of a horse behind them. Then Sir Nicholas
made a quick movement, and dropped his hands again; a single rabbit had
cantered out from the growth opposite, and sat up with cocked ears
staring straight at the deadly shelter. Then another followed; and again
in a sudden panic the two little furry bodies whisked back into cover.

Ralph marvelled at this strange passion that could set a reasonable man
twitching and panting like the figure in front of him. He himself was a
good rider, and a sufficiently keen hunter when his blood was up; but
this brother-in-law of his seemed to live for little else. Day after
day, as Ralph knew, from the beginning of the season to the end he was
out with 