ews again presently?"

"If you please," she said.

"I hope to be able to do some little things for him," went on Ralph,
dropping his eyes, and he was conscious that she momentarily looked up.

--"But I am afraid there is not much. I shall speak for him to Master
Cromwell and the Lieutenant."

The needle paused and then went on again.

Ralph was conscious of an extraordinary momentousness in every word that
he said. He was well aware that this girl was not to be wooed by
violence, but that he must insinuate his mind and sympathies delicately
with hers, watching for every movement and ripple of thought. He had
known ever since his talk with Margaret Roper that Beatrice was, as it
were, turned towards him and scrutinising him, and that any mistake on
his part, however slight, might finally alienate her. Even his gestures,
the tones of his voice, his manner of walking, were important elements.
He knew now that he was the kind of person who might be acceptable to
her--or rather that his personality contained one facet that pleased
her, and that he must be careful now to keep that facet turned towards
her continually at such an angle that she caught the flash. He had
sufficient sense, not to act a part, for that, he knew, she would soon
discover, but to be natural in his best way, and to use the fine
instincts that he was aware of possessing to tell him exactly how she
would wish him to express himself. It would be a long time yet, he
recognised, before he could attain his final object; in fact he was not
perfectly certain what he wanted; but meanwhile he availed himself of
every possible opportunity to get nearer, and was content with his
progress.

He was sorely tempted now to discuss Sir Thomas's position and to
describe his own, but he perceived from her own aloofness just now that
it would seem a profanity, so he preserved silence instead, knowing that
it would be eloquent to her. At last she spoke again, and there was a
suggestion of a tremor in her voice.

"I suppose you can do nothing for him really? He must stay in the
Tower?"

Ralph threw out his hands, silently, expostulating.

"Nothing?" she said again, bending over her work.

Ralph stood up, looking down at her, but made no answer.

"I--I would do anything," she said deliberately, "anything, I think, for
the man--" and then broke off abruptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph went away from Chelsea that afternoon with a whirling head and
dancing heart. She had said no more than that, but he knew what she had
meant, and knew, too that she would not have said as much to anyone to
whom she was indifferent. Of course, it was hopeless to think of
bringing about More's release, but he could at least pretend to try, and
Ralph was aware that to chivalrous souls a pathetic failure often
appeals more than an excellent success.

Folks turned to look after him more than once as he strode home.




CHAPTER VIII

A HIGHER STEP


As Chris, on the eve of his profession, looked back over the year that
had passed since his reception at the guest-house, he scarcely knew
whether it seemed like a week or a century. At times it appeared as if
the old life in the world were a kind of far-away picture in which he
saw himself as one detached from his present personality, moving among
curious scenes in which now he had no part; at other times the familiar
past rushed on him fiercely, deafened him with its appeal, and claimed
him as its own. In such moods the monastery was an intolerable prison,
the day's round an empty heart-breaking formality in which his soul was
being stifled, and even his habit, which he had once touched so
reverently, the badge of a fool.

The life of the world at such times seemed to him the only sanity; these
men used the powers that God had given them, were content with simple
and unostentatious doings and interests, reached the higher vocation by
their very naiveté, and did not seek to fly on wings that were not meant
to bear them. How sensible, Christopher told himself, was Ralph's ideal!
God had made the world, so Ralph lived in it--a world in which great and
small affairs were carried on, and in which he interested himself. God
had made horses and hawks, had provided materials for carriages and fine
clothes and cross-bows, had formed the sexes and allowed for love and
domestic matters, had created brains with their capacities of passion
and intellect; and so Ralph had taken these things as he found them,
hunted, dressed, lived, managed and mixed with men. At times in his cell
Chris saw that imposing figure in all its quiet bravery of dress, that
sane, clever face, those pitying and contemptuous eyes looking at him,
and heard the well-bred voice asking and commenting and wondering at the
misguided zeal of a brother who could give all this up, and seek to live
a life that was built on and sustained by illusions.

One event during his first six months of the novitiate helped to
solemnise him and to clear the confusion.

Old Dom Augustine was taken sick and died, and Chris for the first time
in his life watched the melting tragedy of death. The old monk