his prior is a poor timid fellow, and we can
do what we will with him. Concealed treason is a sharp sword to threaten
him with."

Ralph remarked presently that he had a brother a monk here.

"But you can do what you like to him," he said. "I have no love for him.
He is an insolent fellow."

Dr. Layton smiled pleasantly.

"We will see what can be done," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph slept that night in the guest-house, in the same room that Chris
had occupied on his first coming. He awoke once at the sound of the
great bell from the tower calling the monks to the night-office, and
smiled at the fantastic folly of it all. His work during the last month
had erased the last remnants of superstitious fear, and to him now more
than ever the Religious Houses were but noisy rookeries, clamant with
bells and chanting, and foul with the refuse of idleness. The sooner
they were silenced and purged the better.

He did not trouble to go to mass in the morning, but lay awake in the
white-washed room, hearing footsteps and voices below, and watching the
morning light brighten on the wall. He found himself wondering once or
twice what Chris was doing, and how he felt; he did not rise till one of
his men looked in to tell him that Dr. Layton would be ready for him in
half-an-hour, if he pleased.

The chapter-house was a strange sight as he entered it from the
cloister. It was a high oblong chamber some fifty feet long, with arched
roof like a chapel, and a paved floor. On a dozen stones or so were cut
inscriptions recording the presence of bodies entombed below, among them
those of Earl William de Warenne and Gundrada, his wife, founders of the
priory five centuries ago. Ralph caught sight of the names as he strode
through the silent monks at the door and entered the chamber, talking
loudly with his fellow-Visitor. The tall vaulted room looked bare and
severe; the seats ran round it, raised on a step, and before the Prior's
chair beneath the crucifix stood a large table covered with papers.
Beneath it, and emerging on to the floor lay a great heap of vestments
and precious things which Dr. Layton had ordered to be piled there for
his inspection, and on the table itself for greater dignity burned two
tapers in massive silver candlesticks.

"Sit here, Mr. Torridon," said the priest, himself taking the Prior's
chair, "we represent the supreme head of the Church of England now, you
must remember."

And he smiled at the other with a solemn joy.

He glanced over his papers, settled himself judicially, and then signed
to one of his men to call the monks in. His two secretaries seated
themselves at either end of the table that stood before their master.

Then the two lines began to file in, in reverse order, as the doctor had
commanded; black silent figures with bowed heads buried in their hoods,
and their hands invisible in the great sleeves of their cowls.

Ralph ran his eyes over them; there were men of all ages there, old
wrinkled faces, and smooth ones; but it was not until they were all
standing in their places that he recognised Chris.

There stood the young man, at a stall near the door, his eyes bent down,
and his face deadly pale, his figure thin and rigid against the pale oak
panelling that rose up some eight feet from the floor. Ralph's heart
quickened with triumph. Ah! it was good to be here as judge, with that
brother of his as culprit!

The Prior and Sub-prior, whose places were occupied, stood together in
the centre of the room, as the doctor had ordered. It was their case
that was to come first.

There was an impressive silence; the two Visitors sat motionless,
looking severely round them; the secretaries had their clean paper
before them, and their pens, ready dipped, poised in their fingers.

Then Dr. Layton began.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an inexpressibly painful task, he said, that he had before him;
the monks were not to think that he gloried in it, or loved to find
fault and impose punishments; and, in fact, nothing but the knowledge
that he was there as the representative of the supreme authority in
Church and State could have supplied to him the fortitude necessary for
the performance of so sad a task.

Ralph marvelled at him as he listened. There was a solemn sound in the
man's face and voice, and dignity in his few and impressive gestures. It
could hardly be believed that he was not in earnest; and yet Ralph
remembered too the relish with which the man had dispersed his foul
tales the evening before, and the cackling laughter with which their
recital was accompanied. But it was all very wholesome for Chris, he
thought.

"And now," said Dr. Layton, "I must lay before you this grievous matter.
It is one of whose end I dare not think, if it should come before the
King's Grace; and yet so it must come. It is no less a matter than
treason."

His voice rang out with a melancholy triumph, and Ralph, looking at the
two monks who stood in the centre of the room, saw that they were both
as white as paper. The lips of the Prior were moving in a kind of
agonised entreaty, and his ey