wide, coarse, strong face, and the long
narrow eyes, with the feathered cap atop, and the rich jewelled dress
beneath. The King stood with his hands behind his back and his legs well
apart.

Cromwell took the paper from Ralph, who stepped back, hesitating what to
do.

"This is it, your Grace," said the minister going back again. "Your
Grace will see that it is as I said."

Ralph perceived a new tone of deference in his master's voice that he
had never noticed before, except once when Cromwell was ironically
bullying a culprit who was giving trouble.

The King said nothing, took the paper and glanced over it, standing a
little aside to let the light fall on it.

"Your Grace will understand--" began Cromwell again.

"Yes, yes, yes," said the harsh voice impatiently. "Let the fellow take
it back," and he thrust the paper into Cromwell's hand, who turned once
more to Ralph.

"Who is he?" said the King. "I have seen his face. Who are you?"

"This is Mr. Ralph Torridon," said Cromwell; "a very useful friend to
me, your Grace."

"The Torridons of Overfield?" questioned Henry once more, who never
forgot a face or a name.

"Yes, your Grace," said Cromwell.

"You are tall enough, sir," said the King, running his narrow eyes up
and down Ralph's figure;--"a strong friend."

"I hope so, your Grace," said Ralph.

The King again looked at him, and Ralph dropped his eyes in the glare of
that mighty personality. Then Henry abruptly thrust out his hand to be
kissed, and as Ralph bent over it he was aware of the thick straight
fingers, the creased wrist, and the growth of hair on the back of the
hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph was astonished, and a little ashamed at his own excitement as he
passed down the stairs again. It was so little that had happened; his
own part had been so insignificant; and yet he was tingling from head to
foot. He felt he knew now a little better how it was that the King's
will, however outrageous in its purposes, was done so quickly. It was
the sheer natural genius of authority and royalty that forced it
through; he had felt himself dominated and subdued in those few moments,
so that he was not his own master. As he went home through the street or
two that separated the Palace gate from his own house, he found himself
analysing the effect of that presence, and, in spite of its repellence,
its suggestion of coarseness, and its almost irritating imperiousness,
he was conscious that there was a very strong element of attractiveness
in it too. It seemed to him the kind of attractiveness that there is for
a beaten dog in the chastising hand: the personality was so overwhelming
that it compelled allegiance, and that not wholly one of fear. He found
himself thinking of Queen Katharine and understanding a little better
how it was that the refined, delicately nurtured and devout woman, so
constant in her prayers, so full of the peculiar fineness of character
that gentle birth and religion alone confer, could so cling to this
fierce lord of hers, throw herself at his feet with tears before all the
company, and entreat not to be separated from him, calling him her "dear
lord," her "love," and her most "merciful and gracious prince."

       *       *       *       *       *

The transition from this train of thought to that bearing on Beatrice
was not a difficult one; for the memory of the girl was continually in
his mind. He had seen her half a dozen times now since their first
meeting; for he had availed himself to the full of Cromwell's
encouragement to make himself at home at Chelsea; and he found that his
interest in her deepened every time. With a touch of amusement he found
himself studying Horace and Terence again, not only for Sir Thomas
More's benefit, but in order to win his approval and his good report to
his household, among whom Beatrice was practically to be reckoned.

He was pleased too by More's account of Beatrice.

"She is nearly as good a scholar as my dear Meg," he had said one day.
"Try her, Mr. Torridon."

Ralph had carefully prepared an apt quotation that day, and fired it off
presently, not at Beatrice, but, as it were, across her; but there was
not the faintest response or the quiver of an eyelid.

There was silence a moment; and then Sir Thomas burst out--

"You need not look so demure, my child; we all know that you
understand."

Beatrice had given him a look of tranquil amusement in return.

"I will not be made a show of," she said.

Ralph went away that day more engrossed than ever. He began to ask
himself where his interest in her would end; and wondered at its
intensity.

As he questioned himself about it, it seemed that to him it was to a
great extent her appearance of detached self-possession that attracted
him. It was the quality that he most desired for himself, and one which
he had in measure attained; but he was aware that in the presence of
Cromwell at least it deserted him. He knew well that he had found his
master there, and that he himself was nothing more than a
hero-worshipper before a shrine; but it provoked him to feel that there
was no one who seemed to occup