 of divine man.

The quiet, priestly face watching opposite never winced or moved; and he
went on.

Persecution, he said, was coming. There had been a riot or two already.
But persecution was not to be feared. It would no doubt cause
apostasies, as it had always done, but these were deplorable only on
account of the individual apostates. On the other hand, it would
reassure the faithful; and purge out the half-hearted. Once, in the
early ages, Satan's attack had been made on the bodily side, with whips
and fire and beasts; in the sixteenth century it had been on the
intellectual side; in the twentieth century on the springs of moral and
spiritual life. Now it seemed as if the assault was on all three planes
at once. But what was chiefly to be feared was the positive influence of
Humanitarianism: it was coming, like the kingdom of God, with power; it
was crushing the imaginative and the romantic, it was assuming rather
than asserting its own truth; it was smothering with bolsters instead of
wounding and stimulating with steel or controversy. It seemed to be
forcing its way, almost objectively, into the inner world. Persons who
had scarcely heard its name were professing its tenets; priests absorbed
it, as they absorbed God in Communion--he mentioned the names of the
recent apostates--children drank it in like Christianity itself. The
soul "naturally Christian" seemed to be becoming "the soul naturally
infidel." Persecution, cried the priest, was to be welcomed like
salvation, prayed for, and grasped; but he feared that the authorities
were too shrewd, and knew the antidote and the poison apart. There might
be individual martyrdoms--in fact there would be, and very many--but
they would be in spite of secular government, not because of it.
Finally, he expected, Humanitarianism would presently put on the dress
of liturgy and sacrifice, and when that was done, the Church's cause,
unless God intervened, would be over.

Percy sat back, trembling.

"Yes, my son. And what do you think should be done?"

Percy flung out his hands.

"Holy Father--the mass, prayer, the rosary. These first and last. The
world denies their power: it is on their power that Christians must
throw all their weight. All things in Jesus Christ--in Jesus Christ,
first and last. Nothing else can avail. He must do all, for we can do
nothing."

The white head bowed. Then it rose erect.

"Yes, my son.... But so long as Jesus Christ deigns to use us, we must
be used. He is Prophet and King as well as Priest. We then, too, must be
prophet and king as well as priest. What of Prophecy and Royalty?"

The voice thrilled Percy like a trumpet.

"Yes, Holiness.... For prophecy, then, let us preach charity; for
Royalty, let us reign on crosses. We must love and suffer.... " (He drew
one sobbing breath.) "Your Holiness has preached charity always. Let
charity then issue in good deeds. Let us be foremost in them; let us
engage in trade honestly, in family life chastely, in government
uprightly. And as for suffering--ah! Holiness!"

His old scheme leaped back to his mind, and stood poised there
convincing and imperious.

"Yes, my son, speak plainly."

"Your Holiness--it is old--old as Rome--every fool has desired it: a new
Order, Holiness--a new Order," he stammered.

The white hand dropped the paper-weight; the Pope leaned forward,
looking intently at the priest.

"Yes, my son?"

Percy threw himself on his knees.

"A new Order, Holiness--no habit or badge--subject to your Holiness
only--freer than Jesuits, poorer than Franciscans, more mortified than
Carthusians: men and women alike--the three vows with the intention of
martyrdom; the Pantheon for their Church; each bishop responsible for
their sustenance; a lieutenant in each country.... (Holiness, it is the
thought of a fool.) ... And Christ Crucified for their patron."

The Pope stood up abruptly--so abruptly that Cardinal Martin sprang up
too, apprehensive and terrified. It seemed that this young man had gone
too far.

Then the Pope sat down again, extending his hand.

"God bless you, my son. You have leave to go.... Will your Eminence stay
for a few minutes?"




CHAPTER III

I

The Cardinal said very little to Percy when they met again that evening,
beyond congratulating him on the way he had borne himself with the Pope.
It seemed that the priest had done right by his extreme frankness. Then
he told him of his duties.

Percy was to retain the couple of rooms that had been put at his
disposal; he was to say mass, as a rule, in the Cardinal's oratory; and
after that, at nine, he was to present himself for instructions: he was
to dine at noon with the Cardinal, after which he was to consider
himself at liberty till _Ave Maria_: then, once more he was to be at his
master's disposal until supper. The work he would principally have to do
would be the reading of all English correspondence, and the drawing up
of a report upon it.

Percy found it a very pleasant and serene life, and the sense of home
deepened every day. He had an abundance of time to himself, which he
occupied resolutely in relaxation. From eight to nine he usually