t a sheet of white beneath him, the glow of a chalice, and the pale
disc of the sacrificial bread.

Then, as he paused, with hands together--"_famulorum famularumque
tuarum"_--there opened out the world where his spirit was bending its
intention. Figure after figure came up and passed before his closed
eyes, and on each he turned the beam of God's grace. First Ralph,
sneering and aloof in his rich dress, intent on some Satanic
business;--Chris seized as it were the power of God, and enveloped and
penetrated him with it. Then Margaret, waiting terrified on the divine
will; his mother in her complacent bitterness; Mary; his father--and as
he thought of him it seemed as if all God's blessings were not too
great; Nicholas; his own brethren in religion, his Prior, contracted and
paralysed with terror; Dom Anthony, with his pathetic geniality....

Ah! how short was the time; and yet so long that the Prior looked up
sharply, and the deacon shifted in his rustling silk.

Then again the hands opened, and the stately flood of petition poured
on, as through open gates to the boundless sea that awaited it, where
the very heart of God was to absorb it into Itself.

The great names began to flit past, like palaces on a river-brink, their
bases washed by the pouring liturgy--Peter and Paul, Simon and Thaddeus,
Cosmas and Damian--vast pleasure houses alight with God, while near at
hand now gleamed the line of the infinite ocean.

The hands came together, arched in blessing; and it marked the first
sting of the healing water, as the Divine Essence pushed forward to meet
man's need.

_"Hanc igitur oblatianem ..._"

Then followed the swift silent signs, as if the pilot were ordering
sails out to meet the breeze.

The muttering voice sank to a deliberate whisper, the ripples ceased to
leap as the river widened, and Chris was delicately fingering the white
linen before taking the Host into his hands.

There was a swift glance up, as to the great Sun that burned overhead,
one more noiseless sign, and he sank forward in unutterable awe, with
his arms on the altar, and the white disc, hovering on the brink of
non-existence, beneath his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The faintest whisper rose from behind as the people shifted their
constrained attitudes. Sir James glanced up, his eyes full of tears, at
the distant crimson figure beneath the steady row of lights, motionless
with outspread hands, poised over the bosom of God's Love.

The first murmured words broke the silence; as if next to the Infinite
Pity rose up the infinite need of man--_Nobis quoque peccatoribus_--and
sank to silence again.

Then loud and clear rang out _Per omnia saecula saeculorum;_ and the
choir of monks sang _Amen_.

So the great mystery moved on, but upborne now by the very Presence
itself that sustained all things. From the limitless sea of mercy, the
children cried through the priest's lips to their Father who was in
heaven, and entreated the Lamb of God who takes away sin to have mercy
on them and give them peace.

Then from far beyond the screen Mary could see how the priest leaning a
little forward towards That which he bore in his hands, looked on what
he bore in them; and she whispered softly with him the words that he was
speaking. _Ave in aeternum sanctissima caro Christi_ ...

Again she hid her face; and when she raised it once, all was over, and
the Lord had entered and sanctified the body and soul of the man at
whose words He had entered the creature of bread.

The father and daughter stood together silently in the sunshine outside
the west end of the church, waiting for Chris. He had promised to come
to them there for a moment when his thanksgiving was done.

Beyond the wall, and the guest-house where the Visitors had lived those
two disastrous days, rose up the far sunlit downs, shadowed here and
there with cup-like hollows, standing like the walls about Jerusalem.

As they turned, on the right above the red roofs of the town, rose the
downs again, vast slopes and shoulders, over which Chris had ridden so
short a while ago bearded and brown with hunting. It was over there that
Ralph had come, through that dip, which seemed against the skyline a
breach in a high wall.

Ah! surely God would spare this place; so stately and quiet, so
graciously sheltered by the defences that He Himself had raised! If all
England tottered and fell, this at least might stand, this vast home of
prayer that stirred day and night with the praises of the Eternal and
the petitions of the mortal--this glorious house where a priest so dear
to them had brought forth from his mystical paternity the very Son of
God!

The door opened behind them, and Chris came out pale and smiling with a
little anxious-eyed monk beside him. His eyes lightened as he saw them
standing there; but he turned again for a moment.

"Yes--father," he said. "What was it?"

"You stayed too long," said the other, "at the _famularumque tuarum_;
the rubric says _nullus nimis immoretur_, you know;--_nimis immoretur_."

"Yes," said Chris.




CHAPTER III

THE NORTHERN RISING


A few of the smaller Religiou