 peace; but guarded deftly and struck
hard when she was directly threatened. Neither would she ever take an
insult; the bitterest dart fell innocuous on her bright shield before
she struck back smiling; but there were some sharp moments of anxiety
now and again as she hesitated how to guard.

A silence would fall suddenly in the midst of the talk and clatter at
table; there would be a momentary kindling of glances, as from the tall
chair opposite the chaplain a psychological atmosphere of peril made
itself felt; then the blow would be delivered; the weapons clashed; and
once more the talk rose high and genial over the battlefield.

       *       *       *       *       *

The moment when Beatrice's position in the house came nearest to being
untenable, was one morning in January, when the whole party were
assembled on the steps to see the sportsmen off for the day.

Sir James was down with the foresters and hounds at the further end of
the terrace, arranging the details of the day; Margaret had not yet come
out of chapel, and Lady Torridon, who had had a long fit of silence, was
standing with Mary and Nicholas at the head of the central stairs that
led down from the terrace to the gravel.

Christopher and Beatrice came out of the house behind, talking
cheerfully; for the two had become great friends since they had learnt
to understand one another, and Beatrice had confessed to him frankly
that she had been wrong and he right in the matter of Ralph. She had
told him this a couple of days after her arrival; but there had been a
certain constraint in her manner that forbade his saying much in answer.
Here they came then, now, in the frosty sunshine; he in his habit and
she in her morning house-dress of silk and lace, talking briskly.

"I was sure you would understand, father," she said, as they came up
behind the group.

Then Lady Torridon turned and delivered her point, suddenly and
brutally.

"Of course he will," she said. "I suppose then you are not going out,
Mistress Atherton." And she glanced with an offensive contempt at the
girl and the monk. Beatrice's eyes narrowed almost imperceptibly, and
opened again.

"Why, no, Lady Torridon."

"I thought not," said the other; and again she glanced at the two--"for
I see the priest is not."

There was a moment's silence. Nick was looking at his wife with a face
of dismay. Then Beatrice answered smiling.

"Neither are you, dear Lady Torridon. Is not that enough to keep me?"

A short yelp of laughter broke from Nicholas; and he stooped to examine
his boot.

Lady Torridon opened her lips, closed them again, and turned her back on
the girl.

"But you are cruel," said Beatrice's voice from behind, "and--"

The woman turned once more venomously.

"You do not want me," she said. "You have taken one son of mine, and now
you would take the other. Is not my daughter enough?"

Beatrice instantly stepped up, and put her hand on the other's arm.

"Dear Mistress," she said; and her voice broke into tenderness; "she is
not enough--"

Lady Torridon jerked her arm away.

"Come, Mary," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matters were a little better after that. Sir James was not told of the
incident; because his son knew very well that he would not allow
Beatrice to stay another day after the insult; but Chris felt himself
bound to consult those who had heard what had passed as to whether
indeed it was possible for her to remain. Nicholas grew crimson with
indignation and vowed it was impossible. Mary hesitated; and Chris
himself was doubtful. He went at last to Beatrice that same evening; and
found her alone in the oak parlour, before supper. The sportsmen had not
yet come back; and the other ladies were upstairs.

Beatrice affected to treat it as nothing; and it was not till Chris
threatened to tell his father, that she told him all she thought.

"I must seem a vain fool to say so;" she said, leaning back in her
chair, and looking up at him, "and perhaps insolent too; yet I must say
it. It is this: I believe that Lady Torridon--Ah! how can I say it?"

"Tell me," said Chris steadily, looking away from her.

Beatrice shifted a little in her seat; and then stood up.

"Well, it is this. I do not believe your mother is so--so--is what she
sometimes seems. I think she is very sore and angry; there are a hundred
reasons. I think no one has--has faced her before. She has been obeyed
too much. And--and I think that if I stay I may be able--I may be some
good," she ended lamely.

Chris nodded.

"I understand," he said softly.

"Give me another week or two," said Beatrice, "I will do my best."

"You have worked a miracle with Meg," said Chris. "I believe you can
work another. I will not tell my father; and the others shall not
either."

       *       *       *       *       *

A wonderful change had indeed come to Margaret during the last month.
Her whole soul, so cramped now by circumstances, had gone out in
adoration towards this stranger. Chris found it almost piteous to watch
her--her shy looks, the shiver that went over her, when the brilliant
figure rustled into the room, or the bri