scarcely even heard the
talk round him, although it was loud and continuous; and what he heard
meant little to him. He understood only that there had been strange
scenes, that London was said to have gone suddenly mad, that Felsenburgh
had spoken that night in Paul's House.

He was afraid at the way in which be had been treated, and he asked
himself dully again and again what it was that had inspired that
treatment; it seemed that he bad been in the presence of the
supernatural; he was conscious of shivering a little, and of the
symptoms of an intolerable sleepiness. It was scarcely strange to him
that he should be sitting in a crowded car at two o'clock of a summer
dawn.

Thrice the car stopped, and he stared out at the signs of confusion that
were everywhere; at the figures that ran in the twilight between the
tracks, at a couple of wrecked carriages, a tumble of tarpaulins; he
listened mechanically to the hoots and cries that sounded everywhere.

As he stepped out at last on to the platform, he found it very much as
he had left it two hours before. There was the same desperate rush as
the car discharged its load, the same dead body beneath the seat; and
above all, as he ran helplessly behind the crowd, scarcely knowing
whither he ran or why, above him burned the same stupendous message
beneath the clock. Then he found himself in the lift, and a minute later
he was out on the steps behind the station.

There, too, was an astonishing sight. The lamps still burned overhead,
but beyond them lay the first pale streaks of the false dawn. The street
that ran now straight to the old royal palace, uniting there, as at the
centre of a web, with those that came from Westminster, the Mall and
Hyde Park, was one solid pavement of heads. On this side and that rose
up the hotels and "Houses of Joy," the windows all ablaze with light,
solemn and triumphant as if to welcome a king; while far ahead against
the sky stood the monstrous palace outlined in fire, and alight from
within like all other houses within view. The noise was bewildering. It
was impossible to distinguish one sound from another. Voices, horns,
drums, the tramp of a thousand footsteps on the rubber pavements, the
sombre roll of wheels from the station behind--all united in one
overwhelmingly solemn booming, overscored by shriller notes.

It was impossible to move.

He found himself standing in a position of extraordinary advantage, at
the very top of the broad flight of steps that led down into the old
station yard, now a wide space that united, on the left the broad road
to the palace, and on the right Victoria Street, that showed like all
else one vivid perspective of lights and heads. Against the sky on his
right rose up the illuminated head of the Cathedral Campanile. It
appeared to him as if he had known that in some previous existence.

He edged himself mechanically a foot or two to his left, till he clasped
a pillar; then he waited, trying not to analyse his emotions, but to
absorb them.

Gradually he became aware that this crowd was as no other that he had
ever seen. To his psychical sense it seemed to him that it possessed a
unity unlike any other. There was magnetism in the air. There was a
sensation as if a creative act were in process, whereby thousands of
individual cells were being welded more and more perfectly every instant
into one huge sentient being with one will, one emotion, and one head.
The crying of voices seemed significant only as the stirrings of this
creative power which so expressed itself. Here rested this giant
humanity, stretching to his sight in living limbs so far as he could see
on every side, waiting, waiting for some consummation--stretching, too,
as his tired brain began to guess, down every thoroughfare of the vast
city.

He did not even ask himself for what they waited. He knew, yet he did
not know. He knew it was for a revelation--for something that should
crown their aspirations, and fix them so for ever.

He had a sense that he had seen all this before; and, like a child, he
began to ask himself where it could have happened, until he remembered
that it was so that he had once dreamt of the Judgment Day--of humanity
gathered to meet Jesus Christ--Jesus Christ! Ah! how tiny that Figure
seemed to him now--how far away--real indeed, but insignificant to
himself--how hopelessly apart from this tremendous life! He glanced up
at the Campanile. Yes; there was a piece of the True Cross there, was
there not?--a little piece of the wood on which a Poor Man had died
twenty centuries ago.... Well, well. It was a long way off....

He did not quite understand what was happening to him. "Sweet Jesus, be
to me not a Judge but a Saviour," he whispered beneath his breath,
gripping the granite of the pillar; and a moment later knew how futile
was that prayer. It was gone like a breath in this vast, vivid
atmosphere of man. He had said mass, had he not? this morning--in white
vestments.--Yes; he had believed it all then--desperately, but truly;
and now....

To look into the future was as useless as to look into the past. There
was no future, and no p