 "You must face it. It is over. Rome is gone. Now we
must build something better."

She threw herself sobbing into his arms.






CHAPTER VIII

I

Long before dawn on the first morning of the New Year the approaches to
the Abbey were already blocked. Victoria Street, Great George Street,
Whitehall--even Millbank Street itself--were full and motionless. Broad
Sanctuary, divided by the low-walled motor-track, was itself cut into
great blocks and wedges of people by the ways which the police kept open
for the passage of important personages, and Palace Yard was kept
rigidly clear except for one island, occupied by a stand which was
itself full from top to bottom and end to end. All roofs and parapets
which commanded a view of the Abbey were also one mass of heads.
Overhead, like solemn moons, burned the white lights of the electric
globes.

It was not known at exactly what hour the tumult had steadied itself to
definite purpose, except to a few weary controllers of the temporary
turnstiles which had been erected the evening before. It had been
announced a week previously that, in consideration of the enormous
demand for seats, all persons who presented their worship-ticket at an
authorised office, and followed the directions issued by the police,
would be accounted as having fulfilled the duties of citizenship in that
respect, and it was generally made known that it was the Government's
intention to toll the great bell of the Abbey at the beginning of the
ceremony and at the incensing of the image, during which period silence
must be as far as possible preserved by all those within hearing.

London had gone completely mad on the announcement of the Catholic plot
on the afternoon before. The secret had leaked out about fourteen
o'clock, an hour after the betrayal of the scheme to Mr. Snowford; and
practically all commercial activities had ceased on the instant. By
fifteen-and-a-half all stores were closed, the Stock Exchange, the City
offices, the West End establishments--all had as by irresistible impulse
suspended business, and from within two hours after noon until nearly
midnight, when the police had been adequately reinforced and enabled to
deal with the situation, whole mobs and armies of men, screaming
squadrons of women, troops of frantic youths, had paraded the streets,
howling, denouncing, and murdering. It was not known how many deaths had
taken place, but there was scarcely a street without the signs of
outrage. Westminster Cathedral had been sacked, every altar overthrown,
indescribable indignities performed there. An unknown priest had
scarcely been able to consume the Blessed Sacrament before he was seized
and throttled; the Archbishop with eleven priests and two bishops had
been hanged at the north end of the church, thirty-five convents had
been destroyed, St. George's Cathedral burned to the ground; and it was
reported even, by the evening papers, that it was believed that, for the
first time since the introduction of Christianity into England, there
was not one Tabernacle left within twenty miles of the Abbey. "London,"
explained the _New People_, in huge headlines, "was cleansed at last of
dingy and fantastic nonsense."

It was known at about fifteen-and-a-half o'clock that at least seventy
volors had left for Rome, and half-an-hour later that Berlin had
reinforced them by sixty more. At midnight, fortunately at a time when
the police had succeeded in shepherding the crowds into some kind of
order, the news was flashed on to cloud and placard alike that the grim
work was done, and that Rome had ceased to exist. The early morning
papers added a few details, pointing out, of course, the coincidence of
the fall with the close of the year, relating how, by an astonishing
chance, practically all the heads of the hierarchy throughout the world
had been assembled in the Vatican which had been the first object of
attack, and how these, in desperation, it was supposed, had refused to
leave the City when the news came by wireless telegraphy that the
punitive force was on its way. There was not a building left in Rome;
the entire place, Leonine City, Trastevere, suburbs--everything was
gone; for the volors, poised at an immense height, had parcelled out the
City beneath them with extreme care, before beginning to drop the
explosives; and five minutes after the first roar from beneath and the
first burst of smoke and flying fragments, the thing was finished. The
volors had then dispersed in every direction, pursuing the motor and
rail-tracks along which the population had attempted to escape so soon
as the news was known; and it was supposed that not less than thirty
thousand belated fugitives had been annihilated by this foresight. It
was true, remarked the _Studio_, that many treasures of incalculable
value had been destroyed, but this was a cheap price to pay for the
final and complete extermination of the Catholic pest. "There comes a
point," it remarked, "when destruction is the only cure for a
vermin-infested house," and it proceeded to observe that now that the
Pope with the entire College of Cardinals, all the e