 the little Benedictine house of Rusper,
where his sister Margaret had been lately professed; and he wondered
what exactly would be his relation with his own family when his work was
done.

But for the main object of his visitation he had little but sympathy. It
was good, he thought, that a scouring should be made of these idle
houses, and their inmates made more profitable to the commonwealth. And
lastly, whether or no he sympathised, it would be fatal to his career
to refuse the work offered to him.

As he did not feel very confident at first, he had arranged to meet with
Dr. Layton's party at the Premonstratension Abbey of Durford, situated
at the borders of Sussex and Hampshire, and there learn the exact
methods to be employed in the visitation; but it was a long ride, and he
took two days over it, sleeping on the way at Waverly in the Cistercian
House. This had not yet been visited, as Dr. Layton was riding up
gradually from the west country, but the rumour of his intentions had
already reached there, and Ralph was received with a pathetic deference
as one of the representatives of the Royal Commission.

The Abbot was a kindly nervous man, and welcomed Ralph with every sign
of respect at the gate of the abbey, giving contradictory orders about
the horses and the entertainment of the guests to his servants who
seemed in very little awe of him.

After mass and breakfast on the following morning the Abbot came into
the guest-house and begged for a short interview.

       *       *       *       *       *

He apologised first for the poorness of the entertainment, saying that
he had done his best. Ralph answered courteously; and the other went on
immediately, standing deferentially before the chair where Ralph was
seated, and fingering his cross.

"I hope, Mr. Torridon, that it will be you who will visit us; you have
found us all unprepared, and you know that we are doing our best to keep
our Rule. I hope you found nothing that was not to your liking."

Ralph bowed and smiled.

"I would sooner that it were you," went on the Abbot, "and not another
that visited us. Dr. Layton--"

He stopped abruptly, embarrassed.

"You have heard something of him?" questioned Ralph.

"I know nothing against him," said the other hastily, "except that they
say that he is sharp with us poor monks. I fear he would find a great
deal here not to his taste. My authority has been so much weakened of
late; I have some discontented brethren--not more than one or two, Mr.
Torridon--and they have learned that they will be able to appeal now to
the King's Grace, and get themselves set free; and they have ruined the
discipline of the house. I do not wish to hide anything, sir, you see;
but I am terribly afraid that Dr. Layton may be displeased."

"I am very sorry, my lord," said Ralph, "but I fear I shall not be
coming here again."

The Abbot's face fell.

"But you will speak for us, sir, to Dr. Layton? I heard you say you
would be seeing him to-night."

Ralph promised to do his best, and was overwhelmed with thanks.

He could not help realising some of the pathos of the situation as he
rode on through the rain to Durford. It was plain that a wave of terror
and apprehensiveness was running through the Religious Houses, and that
it brought with it inevitable disorder. Lives that would have been
serene and contented under other circumstances were thrown off their
balance by the rumours of disturbance, and authority was weakened. If
the Rule was hard of observance in tranquil times, it was infinitely
harder when doors of escape presented themselves on all sides.

And yet he was impatient too. Passive or wavering characters irritated
his own strong temperament, and he felt a kind of anger against the
Abbot and his feeble appeal. Surely men who had nothing else to do might
manage to keep their own subjects in order, and a weak crying for pity
was in itself an argument against their competence. And meanwhile, if he
had known it, he would have been still more incensed, for as he rode on
down towards the south west, the Abbot and his monks in the house he had
left were prostrate before the high altar in the dark church, each in
his stall, praying for mercy.

"O God, the heathens are come into thine inheritance," they murmured,
"they have defiled thy holy temple."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not until the sun was going down in the stormy west that Ralph
rode up to Durford abbey. The rain had ceased an hour before sunset, and
the wet roofs shone in the evening light.

There were certain signs of stir as he came up. One or two idlers were
standing outside the gate-house; the door was wide open, and a couple of
horses were being led away round the corner.

Inside the court as he rode through he saw further signs of confusion.
Half a dozen packhorses were waiting with hanging heads outside the
stable door, and an agitated lay brother was explaining to a canon in
his white habit, rochet and cap, that there was no more room. He threw
out his hands with a gesture of despair towards Ralph as he came in.

"Mother of God!" he said, "here is another of