mination to bishoprics from the Holy See to the Crown, and,
what was as least as significant, had dealt in a similar manner with the
authority over Religious houses.

On the other side, Rome had declared definitely against the annulling of
Queen Katharine's marriage, and to this the King had retorted by turning
the pulpits against the Pope, and in the course of this had found
himself compelled to deal sharply with the Franciscans, who were at the
same time the most popular and the most papal of all preachers. In the
following out of this policy, first several notable friars were
imprisoned, and next a couple of subservient Religious, a Dominican and
an Augustinian, were appointed grand visitors of the rebellious Order.

A cloud of terror now began to brood over the Religious houses in
England, as the news of these proceedings became known, and Ralph had a
piteous letter from his father, entreating him to give some explanation
of the course of affairs so far as was compatible with loyalty to his
master, and at least his advice as to Christopher's profession.

"We hear sad tales, dear son," wrote Sir James, "on all sides are fears,
and no man knows what the end will be. Some even say that the Orders
will be reduced in number. And who knows what may be toward now that the
Bishop and Mr. More are in trouble. I know not what is all this that
Parliament has been doing about the Holy Father his authority; but I am
sure that it cannot be more than what other reigns have brought about in
declaring that the Prince is temporal lord of his land. But, however
that may be, what do you advise that your brother should do? He is to be
professed in August, unless it is prevented, and I dare not put out my
hand to hinder it, until I know more. I do not ask you, dear son, to
tell me what you should not; I know my duty and yours too well for that.
But I entreat you to tell me what you can, that I may not consent to
your brother's profession if it is better that it should not take place
until affairs are quieter. Your mother would send you her dear love, I
know, if she knew I were writing, but she is in her chamber, and the
messenger must go with this. Jesu have you in His blessed keeping!"

Ralph wrote back that he knew no reason against Christopher's
profession, except what might arise from the exposure of the Holy Maid
on whose advice he had gone to Lewes, and that if his father and brother
were satisfied on that score, he hoped that Christopher would follow
God's leading.

At the same time that he wrote this he was engaged, under Cromwell's
directions, in sifting the evidence offered by the grand visitors to
show that the friars refused to accept the new enactments on the subject
of the papal jurisdiction.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the other hand, the Carthusians in London had proved more submissive.
There had been a struggle at first when the oath of the succession had
been tendered to them, and Prior Houghton, with the Procurator, Humphrey
Middlemore, had been committed to the Tower. The oath affirmed the
nullity of Queen Katharine's marriage with the King on the alleged
ground of her consummated marriage with Henry's elder brother, and
involved, though the Carthusians did not clearly understand it so at the
time, a rejection of the Pope's authority as connected with the
dispensation for Katharine's union with Henry. In May their scruples
were removed by the efforts of some who had influence with them, and the
whole community took the oath as required of them, though with the
pathetic addition of a clause that they only submitted "so far as it
was lawful for them so to do." This actual submission, to Cromwell's
mind and therefore to Ralph's, was at first of more significance than
was the uneasy temper of the community, as reported to them, which
followed their compliance; but as the autumn drew on this opinion was
modified.

It was in connection with this that Ralph became aware for the first
time of what was finally impending with regard to the King's supremacy
over the Church.

He had been sitting in Cromwell's room in the Chancery all through one
morning, working at the evidence that was flowing in from all sides of
disaffection to Henry's policy, sifting out worthless and frivolous
charges from serious ones. Every day a flood of such testimony poured in
from the spies in all parts of the country, relating to the deepening
dissatisfaction with the method of government; and Cromwell, as the
King's adviser, came in for much abuse. Every kind of manifestation of
this was reported, the talk in the ale-houses and at gentlemen's tables
alike, words dropped in the hunting-field or over a game of cards; and
the offenders were dealt with in various ways, some by a sharp rebuke or
warning, others by a sudden visit of a pursuivant and his men.

Ralph made his report as usual at the end of the morning, and was on the
point of leaving, when his master called him back from the door.

"A moment," he said, "I have something to say. Sit down."

When Ralph had taken the chair again that he had just left, Cromwell
took up a pen, and beg