going to sign with a glad heart. The King
had shown his clemency in a hundred ways, and to that clemency he
trusted.

Then he sat down; and Chris marvelled at his self-control.

Dr. Petre stood up, and looked round for a moment before opening his
mouth; then he put his two hands on the table before him, dropped his
eyes and began his speech.

He endorsed first what the Prior had said, and congratulated all there
on possessing such a superior. It was a great happiness, he said, to
deal with men who showed themselves so reasonable and so loyal. Some he
had had to do with had not been so--and--and of course their
stubbornness had brought its own penalty. But of that he did not wish
to speak. On the other hand those who had shown themselves true
subjects of his Grace had already found their reward. He had great
pleasure in announcing to them that what the Prior had said to them a
day or two before was true; and that their brethren in religion of
Chertsey Abbey, who had been moved to Bisham last year, were to go to
the London Charterhouse in less than a month. The papers were made out;
he had assisted in their drawing up.

He spoke in a quiet restrained voice, and with an appearance of great
deference; there was not the shadow of a bluster even when he referred
to the penalties of stubbornness; it was very unlike the hot bullying
arrogance of Dr. Layton. Then he ended--

"And so, reverend fathers, the choice is in your hands. His Grace will
use no compulsion. You will hear presently that the terms of surrender
are explicit in that point. He will not force one man to sign who is not
convinced that he can best serve his King and himself by doing so. It
would go sorely against his heart if he thought that he had been the
means of making the lowest of his subjects to act contrary to the
conscience that God has given him. My Lord Prior, I will beg of you to
read the terms of surrender."

The paper was read, and it was as it had been described. Again and again
it was repeated in various phrases that the property was yielded of
free-will. It was impossible to find in it even the hint of a threat.
The properties in question were enumerated in the minutest manner, and
the list included all the rights of the priory over the Cluniac cell of
Castleacre.

The Prior laid the paper down, and looked at Dr. Petre.

The Commissioner rose from his seat, taking the paper as he did so, and
so stood a moment.

"You see, reverend fathers, that it is as I told you. I understand that
you have already considered the matter, so that there is no more to be
said."

He stepped down from the dais and passed round to the further side of
the table. One of the secretaries pushed an ink-horn and a couple of
quills across to him.

"My Lord Prior," said Dr. Petre, with a slight bow. "If you are willing
to sign this, I will beg of you to do so; and after that to call up your
subjects."

He laid the paper down. The Prior stepped briskly out of his seat, and
passed round the table.

Chris watched his back, the thin lawyer beside him indicating the place
for the name; and listened as in a dream to the scratching of the pen.
He himself still did not know what he would do. If all signed--?

The Prior stepped back, and Chris caught a glimpse of a white face that
smiled terribly.

The Sub-Prior stepped down at a sign from his Superior; and then one by
one the monks came out.

Chris's heart sickened as he watched; and then stood still on a sudden
in desperate hope, for opposite to him Dom Anthony sat steady, his head
on his hand, and made no movement when it was his turn to come out.
Chris saw the Prior look at the monk, and a spasm of emotion went over
his face.

"Dom Anthony," he said.

The monk lifted his face, and it was smiling too.

"I cannot sign, My Lord Prior."

Then the veils fell, and decision flashed on Chris' soul.

He heard the pulse drumming in his ears, and his wet hands slipped one
in the other as he gripped them together, but he made no sign till all
the others had gone up. Then he looked up at the Prior.

It seemed an eternity before the Prior looked at him and nodded; and he
could make no answering sign.

Then he heard his name called, and with a great effort he answered; his
voice seemed not his own in his ears. He repeated Dom Anthony's words.

"I cannot sign, My Lord Prior."

Then he sat back with closed eyes and waited.

He heard movements about him, steps, the crackle of parchment, and at
last Dr. Petre's voice; but he scarcely understood what was said. There
was but one thought dinning in his brain, and that was that he had
refused, and thrown his defiance down before the King--that terrible man
whom he had seen in his barge on the river, with the narrow eyes, the
pursed mouth and the great jowl, as he sat by the woman he called his
wife--that woman who now--

Chris shivered, opened his eyes, and sense came back.

Dr. Petre was just ending his speech. He was congratulating the
Community on their reasonableness and loyalty. By an overwhelming
majority they had decided to trust the King, and they would not find his
grace unmindful of that. As for thos