 there, and had an instinctive shrinking from being at the house
when the stranger arrived.

The grass walks were crisp to the foot; the plants in the deep beds
rested in a rigid stillness with a black blossom or two drooping here
and there; and the hollies beyond the yew hedge lifted masses of green
lit by scarlet against the pale sky. Her breath went up like smoke as
she walked softly up and down.

There was no sound to disturb her. Once she heard the clink of the
blacksmith's forge half a mile away in the village; once a blackbird
dashed chattering from a hedge, scudded in a long dip, and rose again
over it; a robin followed her in brisk hops, with a kind of pathetic
impertinence in his round eye, as he wondered whether this human
creature's footsteps would not break the iron armour of the ground and
give him a chance to live.

She wondered a thousand things as she went; what kind of a woman this
was that was coming, how she would look, why she had not married Ralph,
and above all, whether she understood--whether she understood!

A kind of frost had fallen on her own soul; she could find no sustenance
there; it was all there, she knew, all the mysterious life that had
rioted within her like spring, in the convent, breathing its fragrances,
bewildering in its wealth of shape and colour. But an icy breath had
petrified it all; it had sunk down out of sight; it needed a soul like
her own, feminine and sympathetic, a soul that had experienced the same
things as her own, that knew the tenderness and love of the Saviour, to
melt that frigid covering and draw out the essences and sweetness again,
that lay there paralysed by this icy environment....

There were wheels at last.

She gathered up her black skirt, and ran to the edge of the low yews
that bounded the garden on the north; and as she caught a glimpse of the
nodding heads of the postilions, the plumes of their mounts, and the
great carriage-roof swaying in the iron ruts, she shrank back again, in
an agony of shyness, terrified of being seen.

The sky had deepened to flaming orange in the west, barred by the tall
pines, before she unlatched the garden-gate to go back to the house.

The windows shone out bright and inviting from the parlour on the
ground-floor and from beneath the high gable of the hall as she came up
the slope. Mistress Atherton, she knew, would be in one of these rooms
if she had not already gone up stairs; and with an instinct of shyness
still strong within her the girl slipped round to the back, and passed
in through the chapel.

The court was lighted by a link that flared beside one of the doorways
on the left, and a couple of great trunks lay below it. A servant came
out as she stood there hesitating, and she called to him softly to know
where was Mistress Atherton.

"She is in the parlour, Mistress Margaret," said the man.

The girl went slowly across to the corner doorway, glancing at the
parlour windows as she passed; but the curtains were drawn on this side,
and she could catch no glimpse of the party within.

The little entrance passage was dark; but she could hear a murmur of
voices as she stood there, still hesitating. Then she opened the door
suddenly, and went into the room.

Her mother was speaking; and the girl heard those icy detached tones as
she looked round the group.

"It must be very difficult for you, Mistress Atherton, in these days."

Margaret saw her father standing at the window-seat, and Chris beside
him; and in a moment saw that the faces of both were troubled and
uneasy.

A tall girl was in the chair opposite, her hands lying easily on the
arms and her head thrown back almost negligently. She was well dressed,
with furs about her throat; her buckled feet were crossed before the
blaze, and her fingers shone with jewels. Her face was pale; her
scarlet lips were smiling, and there was a certain keen and genial
amusement in her black eyes.

She looked magnificent, thought Margaret, still standing with her hand
on the door--too magnificent.

Her father made a movement, it seemed of relief, as his daughter came
in; but Lady Torridon, very upright in her chair on this side, went on
immediately.

--"With your opinions, Mistress Atherton, I mean. I suppose all that you
consider sacred is being insulted, in your eyes."

The tall girl glanced at Margaret with the amusement still in her face,
and then answered with a deliberate incisiveness that equalled Lady
Torridon's own.

"Not so difficult," she said, "as for those who have no opinions."

There was a momentary pause; and then she added, as she stood up and Sir
James came forward.

"I am very sorry for them, Mistress Torridon."

Before Lady Torridon could answer, Sir James had broken in.

"This is my daughter Margaret, Mistress Atherton."

The two ladies saluted one another.




CHAPTER II

A DUEL


Margaret watched Beatrice with growing excitement that evening, in which
was mingled something of awe and some thing of attraction. She had never
seen anyone so serenely self-possessed.

It became evident during supper, beyond the possibility of mistake, that
Lady Torridon had planned war 