er the lamp he stopped, and lifted what he carried to the light. It
was the little ivory crucifix that he had hung there a few weeks ago
when the last cross of precious metal had disappeared with the
Sub-Prior. It was cracked across the body of the figure now, and one of
the arms was detached at the shoulder and swung free on the nail through
the hand.

Dom Anthony looked at it, turned and looked at Chris; and without a word
the two passed out into the cloister and turned up the dormitory stairs.
To both of them it was a sign that the end was at hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the following afternoon Mr. Morris ran in to Chris's carrel, and
found him putting the antiphonary and his implements up into a parcel.

"Master Christopher," he said, "Sir James and Sir Nicholas are come."

As he hurried out of the cloister he saw the horses standing there,
spent with fast travelling, and the two riders at their heads, with the
dust on their boots, and their clothes disordered. They remained
motionless as the monk came towards them; but he saw that his father's
face was working and that his eyes were wide and anxious.

"Thank God," said the old man softly. "I am in time. They are coming
to-night, Chris." But there was a questioning look on his face.

Chris looked at him.

"Will you take the horses?" said his father again. "Nick and I are
safe."

Chris still stared bewildered. Then he understood; and with
understanding came decision.

"No, father," he said.

The old man's face broke up into lines of emotion.

"Are you sure, my son?"

Chris nodded steadily.

"Then we will all be together," said Sir James; and he turned to lead
his horse to the stable.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a little council held in the guest-house a few minutes later.
Dom Anthony hurried to it, his habit splashed with whitewash, for he had
been cleaning the dormitory, and the four sat down together.

It seemed that Nicholas had ridden over from Great Keynes to Overfield
earlier in the afternoon, and had brought the news that a company of men
had passed through the village an hour before, and that one of them had
asked which turn to take to Lewes. Sir Nicholas had ridden after them
and enquired their business, and had gathered that they were bound for
the priory, and he then turned his horse and made off to Overfield. His
horse was spent when he arrived there; but he had changed horses and
came on immediately with Sir James, to warn the monks of the approach of
the men, and to give them an opportunity of making their escape if they
thought it necessary.

"Who were the leaders?" asked the elder monk.

Nicholas shook his head.

"They were in front; I dared not ride up."

But his sturdy face looked troubled as he answered, and Chris saw his
father's lips tighten. Dom Anthony drummed softly on the table.

"There is nothing to be done," he said. "We wait till we are cast out."

"You cannot refuse admittance?" questioned Sir James.

"But we shall do so," said the other tranquilly; "at least we shall not
open."

"But they will batter the door down."

"Certainly," said the monk.

"And then?"

He shrugged his shoulders.

"I suppose they will put us out."

There was absolutely nothing to be done. It was absurd to dream of more
than formal resistance. Up in the North in more than one abbey the
inmates had armed themselves, and faced the spoilers grimly on the
village green; but that was where the whole country side was with them,
and here it was otherwise.

They talked a few minutes longer, and decided that they would neither
open nor resist. The monks two were determined to remain there until
they were actually cast out; and then the responsibility would rest on
other shoulders than theirs.

It was certain of course that by this time to-morrow at the latest they
would have been expelled; and it was arranged that the two monks should
ride back to Overfield, if they were personally unmolested, and remain
there until further plans were decided upon.

The four knew of course that there was a grave risk in provoking the
authorities any further, but it was a risk that the two Religious were
determined to run.

They broke up presently; Mr. Morris came upstairs to tell them that food
was ready in one of the parlours off the cloister; and the two laymen
went off with him, while the monks went to sing vespers for the last
time.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour or two later the two were in the refectory at supper. The
evening was drawing in, and the light in the tall windows was fading.
Opposite where Chris sat (for Dom Anthony was reading aloud from the
pulpit), a row of coats burned in the glass, and he ran his eyes over
them. They had been set there, he remembered, soon after his own coming
to the place; the records had been searched, and the arms of every prior
copied and emblazoned in the panes. There they all were; from Lanzo of
five centuries ago, whose arms were conjectural, down to Robert Crowham,
who had forsaken his trust; telling the long tale of prelates and
monastic life, from the beginning to the close. He loo