ne, and the
country was open beneath.

Snowford rose, staggering a little.

"I may as well tell the guard now," he said. "Then we need not be
interrupted again."




CHAPTER VI

I

The Syrian awoke from a dream that a myriad faces were looking into his
own, eager, attentive and horrible, in his corner of the roof-top, and
sat up sweating and gasping aloud for breath. For an instant he thought
that he was really dying, and that the spiritual world was about him.
Then, as he struggled, sense came back, and he stood up, drawing long
breaths of the stifling night air.

Above him the sky was as the pit, black and empty; there was not a
glimmer of light, though the moon was surely up. He had seen her four
hours before, a red sickle, swing slowly out from Thabor. Across the
plain, as he looked from the parapet, there was nothing. For a few yards
there lay across the broken ground a single crooked lance of light from
a half-closed shutter; and beneath that, nothing. To the north again,
nothing; to the west a glimmer, pale as a moth's wing, from the
house-roofs of Nazareth; to the east, nothing. He might be on a
tower-top in space, except for that line of light and that grey glimmer
that evaded the eye.

On the roof, however, it was possible to make out at least outlines, for
the dormer trap had been left open at the head of the stairs, and from
somewhere within the depths of the house there stole up a faint
refracted light.

There was a white bundle in that corner; that would be the pillow of the
Benedictine abbot. He had seen him lay himself down there some time--was
it four hours or four centuries ago? There was a grey shape stretched
along that pale wall--the Friar, he thought; there were other irregular
outlines breaking the face of the parapet, here and there along the
sides.

Very softly, for he knew the caprices of sleep, he stepped across the
paved roof to the opposite parapet and looked over, for there yet hung
about him a desire for reassurance that he was still in company with
flesh and blood. Yes, indeed he was still on earth; for there was a real
and distinct light burning among the tumbled rocks, and beside it,
delicate as a miniature, the head and shoulders of a man, writing. And
in the circle of light were other figures, pale, broken patches on which
men lay; a pole or two, erected with the thought of a tent to follow; a
little pile of luggage with a rug across it; and beyond the circle other
outlines and shapes faded away into the stupendous blackness.

Then the writing man moved his head, and a monstrous shadow fled across
the ground; a yelp as of a strangling dog broke out suddenly close
behind him, and, as he turned, a moaning figure sat up on the roof,
sobbing itself awake. Another moved at the sound, and then as, sighing,
the former relapsed heavily against the wall, once more the priest went
back to his place, still doubtful as to the reality of all that he saw,
and the breathless silence came down again as a pall.

* * * * *

He woke again from dreamless sleep, and there was a change. From his
corner, as he raised his heavy eyes, there met them what seemed an
unbearable brightness; then, as he looked, it resolved itself into a
candle-flame, and beyond it a white sleeve, and higher yet a white face
and throat. He understood, and rose reeling; it was the messenger come
to fetch him as had been arranged.

As he passed across the space, once he looked round him, and it seemed
that the dawn must have come, for that appalling sky overhead was
visible at last. An enormous vault, smoke-coloured and opaque, seemed to
curve away to the ghostly horizons on either side where the far-away
hills raised sharp shapes as if cut in paper. Carmel was before him; at
least he thought it was that--a bull head and shoulders thrusting itself
forward and ending in an abrupt descent, and beyond that again the
glimmering sky. There were no clouds, no outlines to break the huge,
smooth, dusky dome beneath the centre of which this house-roof seemed
poised. Across the parapet, as he glanced to the right before descending
the steps, stretched Esdraelon, sad-coloured and sombre, into the
metallic distance. It was all as unreal as some fantastic picture by one
who had never looked upon clear sunlight. The silence was complete and
profound.

Straight down through the wheeling shadows he went, following the
white-hooded head and figure down the stairs, along the tiny passage,
stumbling once against the feet of one who slept with limbs tossed loose
like a tired dog; the feet drew back mechanically, and a little moan
broke from the shadows. Then he went on, passing the servant who stood
aside, and entered.

There were half-a-dozen men gathered here, silent, white figures
standing apart one from the other, who genuflected as the Pope came in
simultaneously through the opposite door, and again stood white-faced
and attentive. He ran his eyes over them as he stopped, waiting behind
his master's chair--there were two he knew, remembering them from last
night--dark-faced Cardinal Ruspoli, and the lean Australian Archbishop,
besides Cardinal Corkran, 