      *       *       *

Half an hour later he came upstairs again.

He had supped alone, listening and watching the window as he ate; but no
sign had come of any arrival. He had dressed with particular care,
intending to be found at his ease when the searchers did arrive; there
must be no sign of panic or anxiety. He had told his man as he rose
from table, to say to any that came for him that they were expected, and
to bring them immediately upstairs.

He unlocked the door of his private room, and went in. All was as he had
left it; the floor between the window and table was white with ordered
heaps of papers; the bundle on the table itself glimmered where he had
laid it.

The fire had sunk to a spark. He tenderly lifted off the masses of black
sheets that crackled as he touched them; it had not occurred to him
before that these evidences of even a harmless destruction had better be
removed; and he slid them carefully on to a broad sheet of paper, folded
it, shaking the ashes together as he did so, and stood a moment,
wondering where he should hide it.

The room was growing dark now; he put the package down; went to the fire
and blew it up a little, added some wood, and presently the flames were
dancing on the broad hearth.

As he stood up again he heard the knocker rap on his street-door. For a
moment he had an instinct to run to the window and see who was there;
but he put it aside; there was scarcely time to hide the ashes; and it
was best too to give no hint of anxiety. He lifted the package of burnt
papers once more, and stood hesitating; a press would be worse than
useless as a hiding-place; all such would of course be searched. Then a
thought struck him; he stood up noiselessly on his chair. The Holbein
portrait of Cromwell in his furred gown and chain leaned forward from
the tapestry over the mantelpiece. Ralph set one hand against the wall
at the side; and then tenderly let the package fall behind the portrait.
As he did so the painted and living eyes were on a level; it seemed
strange to him that the faces were so near together at that moment; and
it struck him with a grim irony that the master should be so protecting
the servant under these circumstances.

Then he dropped lightly to the ground, and sat quickly in the chair,
snatching up the bundle of papers from the table as he did so.

The steps were on the landing now; he heard the crack of the balustrade;
but it seemed they were coming very quietly.

There was a moment's silence; the muscles of his throat contracted
sharply, then there came the servant's tap; the handle was turned.

Ralph stood up quickly, still holding the papers, as the door opened,
and Beatrice stepped forward into the room. The door shut noiselessly
behind her.

       *       *       *       *       *

She stood there, with the firelight playing on her dark loose-sleeved
mantle, the hood that surrounded her head, her pale face a little
flushed, and her black steady eyes. Her breath came quickly between her
parted lips.

Ralph stared at her, dazed by the shock, still gripping the bundle of
papers. She moved forward a step; and the spell snapped.

"Mistress Beatrice," he said.

"I have come," she said; "what is it? You want me?"

She came round the table, with an air of eager expectancy.

"I--I did not know," said Ralph.

"But you wanted me. What is the matter? I heard you call."

Ralph stared again, bewildered.

"Call?" he said.

"Yes, I heard you. I was in my room at my aunt's house--ah! a couple of
hours ago. You called me twice. 'Beatrice! Beatrice!' Then--then they
told me what had happened about my Lord Essex."

"I called you?" repeated Ralph.

"Yes--you called me. Your voice was quite close to me, at my ear; I
thought you were in the room. Tell me what it is."

She loosened her hold of her mantle as she stood there by the table; and
it dropped open, showing a sparkle of jewels at her throat. She threw
back her hood, and it dropped on to her shoulders, leaving visible the
coiled masses of her black hair set with knots of ribbon.

"I did not call," said Ralph dully. "I do not know what you mean,
Mistress Atherton."

She made a little impatient gesture.

"Ah! yes," she said, "it is something. Tell me quickly. I suppose it has
to do with my Lord. What is it?"

"It is nothing," said Ralph again.

They stood looking at one another in silence. Beatrice's eyes ran a
moment up and down his rich dress, the papers in his hands, then
wandered to the heaped floor, the table, and returned to the papers in
his hands.

"You must tell me," she said. "What is that you are holding?"

An angry terror seized Ralph.

"That is my affair, Mistress Atherton. What is your business with me?"

She came a step nearer, and leant her left hand on his table. He could
see those steady eyes on his face; she looked terribly strong and
controlled.

"Indeed you must tell me, Mr. Torridon. I am come here to do something.
I do not know what. What are those papers?"

He turned and dropped them on to the chair behind him.

"I tell you again, I do not know what you mean."

"It is useless," she said. "Have they been to you ye