
a little service--at least I thought it so then."

More took the letter and glanced at it.

"A very pretty letter," he said, "and why do you show it me?"

Ralph looked at him steadily.

"Because I am Master Cromwell's servant; and you never forget it."

More burst into a fit of laughter; and then took Ralph kindly by the
hand.

"You are either very innocent or very deep," he said. "And what have you
come to ask me?"

"I have come to ask nothing, Master More," said Ralph indignantly,
withdrawing his hand--"except to be of service to you."

"To talk about the oath," corrected the other placidly. "Very well then.
Do you begin, Mr. Torridon."

Ralph made a great effort, for he was sorely perplexed by Sir Thomas'
attitude, and began to talk, putting all the reasons forward that he
could think of for the accepting of the oath. He pointed out that
government and allegiance would be impossible things if every man had to
examine for himself the claims of his rulers; when vexed and elaborate
questions arose--and this certainly was one such--was it not safer to
follow the decrees of the King and Parliament, rather than to take up a
position of private judgment, and decide upon details of which a subject
could have no knowledge? How, too, could More, under the circumstances,
take upon himself to condemn those who had subscribed the oath?--he
named a few eminent prelates, the Abbot of Westminster and others.

"I do not condemn them," put in More, who was looking interested.

"Then you are uncertain of the matter?" went on Ralph who had thought
out his line of argument with some care.

More assented.

"But your duty to the King's grace is certain; therefore it should
outweigh a thing that is doubtful."

Sir Thomas sucked in his lower lip, and stared gravely on the young
man.

"You are very shrewd, sir," he said. "I do not know how to answer that
at this moment; but I have no reasonable doubt but that there is an
answer."

Ralph was delighted with his advantage, and pursued it eagerly; and
after a few minutes had won from More an acknowledgment that he might be
willing to consider the taking of the oath itself; it was the other
clauses that touched his conscience more. He could swear to be loyal to
Anne's children; but he could not assent to the denunciation of the Pope
contained in the preamble of the Act, and the oath would commit him to
that.

"But you will tell that to the Commissioners, sir?" asked Ralph eagerly.

"I will tell them all that I have told you," said More smiling.

Ralph himself was somewhat doubtful as to whether the concession would
be accepted; but he professed great confidence, and secretly
congratulated himself with having made so much way. But presently a
remark of More's showed that he appreciated the situation.

"I am very grateful to you, Mr. Torridon, for coming and talking to me;
and I shall tell my wife and children so. But it is of no use. They are
resolved to catch me. First there was the bribe; then the matter of the
Maid; then this; and if I took a hundred oaths they would find one more
that I could not, without losing my soul; and that indeed I do not
propose to do. _Quid enim proficit homo?_"

There was a knock at the door a moment later, and a servant came in to
beg Mr. More to come downstairs again; the Commissioners were ready for
him.

"Then good-day, Mr. Torridon. You will come and see me sometimes, even
if not at Chelsea. Wherever I may be it will be as nigh heaven as
Chelsea."

Ralph went down with him, and parted from him at the door of the
Commissioner's room; and half-an-hour later a message was sent out to
him by Cromwell that he need wait no longer; Mr. More had refused the
oath, and had been handed over to the custody of the Abbot of
Westminster.




CHAPTER VII

A MERRY PRISONER


The arrest of Sir Thomas More and Bishop Fisher and their committal to
the Tower a few days later caused nothing less than consternation in
England and of furious indignation on the Continent. It was evident that
greatness would save no man; the best hope lay in obscurity, and men who
had been loud in self-assertion now grew timorous and silent.

Ralph was now in the thick of events. Besides his connection with More,
he had been present at one of the examinations of the Maid of Kent and
her admirers; had formed one of the congregation at Paul's Cross when
the confession drawn up for her had been read aloud in her name by Dr.
Capon, who from the pulpit opposite the platform where the penitents
were set, preached a vigorous sermon against credulity and superstition.
Ralph had read the confession over a couple of days before in Cromwell's
room, and had suggested a few verbal alterations; and he had been
finally present, a few days after More's arrest, at the last scene of
the drama, when Elizabeth Barton, with six priests, suffered, under the
provisions of an act of attainder, on Tyburn gallows.

All these events were indications of the course that things were taking
in regard to greater matters. Parliament had now advanced further than
ever in the direction of a breach with Rome, and had transferred the
power of no