of the screen, in the lay
brothers' choir, and two thirds beyond; as he imagined what it
must be to watch this congregation of elect souls stream in,
each with his lantern in his hand, through the countless doors
that ended each little narrow gangway that disappeared among the
stalls; as he pictured the thunder of the unemotional Carthusian
plain-song--as he saw all this with his bodily eyes standing
silent beside the silent monk, and began little by little to
take in what it all meant, and what this world must be in which
such a condition of things was accepted--a world where
Contemplatives at last were honoured as the kings of the earth,
and themselves controlled and soothed the lives of whom the
world had despaired; as his imagination ran out still farther,
and he remembered that this was but one of innumerable houses of
the kind--as he began to be aware of all this, and of what it
signified as regards the civilization in which he found
himself--his terror began to pass, and to give place to an awe,
and to a kind of exaltation, such as neither Rome nor Lourdes
nor London had been able even to suggest. . . .



(VIII)

"Well?" said Father Jervis, smiling, as the two met on the
platform that evening, to wait for the English-bound air-ship.

Monsignor looked at him.

"I am glad I came," he said. "No; it is not all well with me,
even yet. But I will try again."

The other nodded, still smiling.

"Who was the Father who looked after me?" added the prelate. "He
said he had talked with you."

"He is considered one of the best they have," said the other "I
asked for him specially. He hardly ever fails. You are
impressed by him?"

"Oh yes . . . but he did nothing particular."

"That is just it," smiled the old priest. He added after a pause,
as the bell rang--

"You feel ready for work again? You know what lies before you?"

Monsignor nodded slowly.

"You mean the Establishment of the Church? . . . Yes; I am ready."




CHAPTER V



(I)

The scheme had been in the air for nearly two years, as
Monsignor learned from his papers; and for the last month or two
had come more to the front than ever. But he had not realized
how close it was.

   *   *   *   *   *

It was at the end of October that the Cardinal sent for him and
revealed two more facts. The first was that it was the intention
of His Majesty's Government to appoint a Commission to consider
once more the Establishment of Catholicism as the State religion
of England; and the second was that secret negotiations had been
proceeding now for the last eight months between China, Japan,
the Persian Empire, and Russia, as to the formal recognition of
the Pope as Arbitrator of the East.

"Both points," said the Cardinal, "are absolutely _sub sigillo_
until you hear of them from other sources. And I need not tell you,
Monsignor, that they have the very strongest mutual effects."

"I beg your pardon?"

"Think it over," said the Cardinal, and waved him pleasantly away.

   *   *   *   *   *

From that time forward, as week followed week, the work became
enormous. He was present at interviews of which he understood not
more than one half of the allusions; yet with that extraordinary
skill of which he was made aware by the compliments of the
Cardinal and of his own friends, he showed never a sign of his
ignorance. Papers constantly passed under his hands, disclosing
to him the elaborate preparations that had already been made on
the part of the State authorities; and questions on various
points of discipline were continually submitted to him, at the
bearing of which he could only guess.

It seemed to him remarkable that so much fuss should be made upon
what was by now almost entirely a matter of form, since by the
restoration of Catholic property, recognition of Church courts,
and a hundred other details, as well as by the affection of the
people, the Church already enjoyed supreme power.

He put this once, lightly, to Father Jervis.

"The public is affected by forms much more than by principles,"
said that priest, smiling. "They have already accepted the
principles; but even at the eleventh hour they might take
fright at the forms."

"Do you mean it is possible that a Bill, if it was brought
forward, might not pass?"

"Certainly it's possible. Otherwise, why haven't we had a
Commission appointed? The Socialists aren't beaten yet. But it's
not likely; or the Bill wouldn't be brought forward at all."

The prelate said nothing.



(II)

It was not until a few days before Christmas that the
Cardinal was sent for.

At the beginning of the month the Commission had been appointed
by an overwhelming majority in the House. The proposal had been
brought forward suddenly by the Government, and with a speed and
an employment of business-like methods that seemed very strange
to the man who had lost his memory, and who still had hanging
about him a curious atmosphere of earlier days, the Commission
had despatched an immense amount of work within three weeks.

It was impossible to know how far negotiations had got; but even
the Cardinal himself was taken by surprise when he received an
invitation to at