, roaring crowd. The flight of
steps, twenty yards broad, used only in cases of emergency, resembled a
gigantic black cataract nearly two hundred feet in height. Each car as
it drew up discharged more and more men and women, who ran like ants
towards the assembly of their fellows. The noise was indescribable, the
shouting of men, the screaming of women, the clang and hoot of the huge
machines, and three or four times the brazen cry of a trumpet, as an
emergency door was flung open overhead, and a small swirl of crowd
poured through it towards the streets beyond. But after one look Percy
looked no more at the people; for there, high up beneath the clock, on
the Government signal board, flared out monstrous letters of fire,
telling in Esperanto and English, the message for which England had
grown sick. He read it a dozen times before he moved, staring, as at a
supernatural sight which might denote the triumph of either heaven or
hell.

"EASTERN CONVENTION DISPERSED.

PEACE, NOT WAR.

UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD ESTABLISHED.

FELSENBURGH IN LONDON TO-NIGHT."

* * * * *



III

It was not until nearly two hours later that Percy was standing at the
house beyond the Junction.

He bad argued, expostulated, threatened, but the officials were like
men possessed. Half of them had disappeared in the rush to the City, for
it had leaked out, in spite of the Government's precautions, that Paul's
House, known once as St. Paul's Cathedral, was to be the scene of
Felsenburgh's reception. The others seemed demented; one man on the
platform had dropped dead from nervous exhaustion, but no one appeared
to care; and the body lay huddled beneath a seat. Again and again Percy
had been swept away by a rush, as he struggled from platform to platform
in his search for a car that would take him to Croydon. It seemed that
there was none to be had, and the useless carriages collected like
drift-wood between the platforms, as others whirled up from the country
bringing loads of frantic, delirious men, who vanished like smoke from
the white rubber-boards. The platforms were continually crowded, and as
continually emptied, and it was not until half-an-hour before midnight
that the block began to move outwards again.

Well, he was here at last, dishevelled, hatless and exhausted, looking
up at the dark windows.

He scarcely knew what he thought of the whole matter. War, of course,
was terrible. And such a war as this would have been too terrible for
the imagination to visualise; but to the priest's mind there were other
things even worse. What of universal peace--peace, that is to say,
established by others than Christ's method? Or was God behind even this?
The questions were hopeless.

Felsenburgh--it was he then who had done this thing--this thing
undoubtedly greater than any secular event hitherto known in
civilisation. What manner of man was he? What was his character, his
motive, his method? How would he use his success?... So the points flew
before him like a stream of sparks, each, it might be, harmless; each,
equally, capable of setting a world on fire. Meanwhile here was an old
woman who desired to be reconciled with God before she died....

* * * * *

He touched the button again, three or four times, and waited. Then a
light sprang out overhead, and he knew that he was heard.

"I was sent for," he exclaimed to the bewildered maid. "I should have
been here at twenty-two: I was prevented by the rush."

She babbled out a question at him.

"Yes, it is true, I believe," he said. "It is peace, not war. Kindly
take me upstairs."

He went through the hall with a curious sense of guilt. This was Brand's
house then--that vivid orator, so bitterly eloquent against God; and
here was he, a priest, slinking in under cover of night. Well, well, it
was not of his appointment.

At the door of an upstairs room the maid turned to him.

"A doctor, sir?" she said.

"That is my affair," said Percy briefly, and opened the door.

* * * * *

A little wailing cry broke from the corner, before he had time to close
the door again.

"Oh! thank God! I thought He had forgotten me. You are a priest,
father?"

"I am a priest. Do you not remember seeing me in the Cathedral?"

"Yes, yes, sir; I saw you praying, father. Oh! thank God, thank God!"

Percy stood looking down at her a moment, seeing her flushed old face in
the nightcap, her bright sunken eyes and her tremulous hands. Yes; this
was genuine enough.

"Now, my child," he said, "tell me."

"My confession, father."

Percy drew out the purple thread, slipped it over his shoulders, and sat
down by the bed.

     * * * * *

But she would not let him go for a while after that.

"Tell me, father. When will you bring me Holy Communion?"

He hesitated.

"I understand that Mr. Brand and his wife know nothing of all this?"

"No, father."

"Tell me, are you very ill?"

"I don't know, father. They will not tell me. I thought I was gone last
night."

"When would you wish me to bring you Holy Communion? I will do as you
say."

"Shall I send to you in a day or two? Father, ought I to tell him?"

"You are not obliged."

"I will if I ought."

"Wel