 said. "What if she--?"

The old man nodded tenderly, and his drawn eyes shone in his face.

"Oh! Chris--I was thinking that--"

Then Nicholas came out of his maze.

Ever since his entrance into the palace, except when he had flared out
at the King, he had moved and stood and sat in a solemn bewilderment.
The effect of the changed atmosphere had been to paralyse his simple and
sturdy faculties; and his face had grown unintelligent during the
process. More than once Chris had been seized with internal laughter, in
spite of the tragedy; the rustic squire was so strangely incongruous
with the situation. But he awoke now.

"God bless me!" he said wonderingly. "It is all over and done. God--"

Chris gave a short yelp of laughter.

"Dear Nick," he said, "yes. God bless you indeed! You spoke up well!"

"Did I do right, sir," said the other to Sir James, "I could not help
it. I--"

"Oh! Nick," said the old man, and leaned forward and put his hand on his
knee.

Nicholas preened himself as he sat there; he would tell Mary how he had
bearded his Majesty, and what a diplomatist was her husband.

"You did very well, sir," put in Mr. Herries ironically. "You terrified
his Grace, I think."

Chris glanced at the lawyer; but Nicholas took it all with the greatest
complacency; tilted his hilt a little forward, smoothed his doublet, and
sat smiling and well-pleased.

They reached the Stairs presently and put Mr. Herries ashore.

"I will be at your house to-morrow, sir," he said, "when you go to take
Mr. Ralph out of prison. The order will be there by the morning, I make
no doubt."

He bowed and smiled and moved off, a stiff figure deliberately picking
its way up the oozy steps to the crowded street overhead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beatrice's face was at the window as they came up the tide half-an-hour
later. Chris stood up in the wherry, when he saw it, and waved his cap
furiously, and the face disappeared.

She was at the landing stage before they reached it, a slender brilliant
figure in her hood and mantle, with her aunt beside her. Chris stood up
again and cried between his hands across the narrowing space that all
was well; and her face was radiant as the boat slipped up to the side,
and balanced there with the boatman's hand on the stone edging.

"It is all well," said Chris again as he stood by her a moment later.
"He is to go free, and we are to tell him."

He dared not look at her; but he was aware that she stood very still and
rigid, and that her eyes were on his father's.

"Oh! Mistress Beatrice--"

Chris began to understand it all a little better, a few minutes later,
as the boat was once again on its way downstream. He and Nicholas had
moved to the bows of the wherry, and the girl and the old man sat alone
in the stern.

They were all very silent at first; Chris leaned on his elbow and stared
out at the sliding banks, the trees on this side and that, the great
houses with their high roofs and towers behind, and their stone steps in
front, the brilliant glare on the water, the hundreds of boats--great
barges flashing jewels from their dozen blades, spidery wherries making
this way and that; and his mind was busy weaving pictures. He saw it all
now; there had been that in Beatrice's face during the moment he had
looked at her, that was more than sympathy. In the shock of that great
joy the veils had fallen, and her soul had looked out through her black
tearful eyes.

There was little doubt now as to what would happen. It was not for their
sake alone, or for Ralph's, that she had looked like that; she had not
said one word, but he knew what was unspoken.

As they passed under London Bridge he turned a little and looked across
the boatmen's shoulder at the two as they sat there in the stern, and
what he saw confirmed him. The old man had flung an arm along the back
of the seat, and was leaning a little forward, talking in a low voice,
his face showing indeed the lines and wrinkles that had deepened more
than ever during these last weeks, but irradiated with an extraordinary
joy. And the girl was beside him, smiling with downcast eyes, turning a
quick look now and again as she sat there. Chris could see her scarlet
lips trembling, and her hands clasped on her knee, shifting a little now
and again as she listened. It was a strange wooing; the father courting
for the son, and the woman answering the son through the father; and
Chris understood what was the answer that she was giving.

Nicholas was watching it too; and presently the two in the stern looked
up suddenly; first Beatrice and then Sir James, and their eyes flashed
joy across and across as the four souls met.

       *       *       *       *       *

Five minutes later again they were at the Tower Stairs.

Mr. Morris, who had been sent on by Mistress Jane Atherton when she had
heard the news, was there holding his horse by the bridle; and behind
him had collected a little crowd of idlers. He gave the bridle to one of
them, and came down the steps to help them out of the boat.

"You have heard?" said Chris as he stepped out last.

"Yes, father," said the ser