 to smart.

It was piteously clear and still. Smoke was rising from a fire somewhere
behind the church, a noise as of metal on stone chinked steadily, and
the voices of men calling one to another sounded continually from the
enclosure. Now and again the tiny figure of a workman showed clear on
the roof, pick in hand; or leaning to call directions down to his
fellows beneath.

Dom Anthony looked in presently, breviary in hand, and knelt by Chris on
the window-step, watching too; but he spoke no word, glanced at the
white face and sunken eyes of the other, sighed once or twice, and went
out again.

The morning passed on and still Chris watched. By eleven o'clock the men
were gone from the roof; half an hour had passed, and no further figure
had appeared.

There were footsteps on the stairs; and Sir James came in.

He came straight across to his son and sat down by him. Chris looked at
him. The old man nodded.

"Yes, my son," he said, "they are at it. Nothing is to be left, but the
cloister and guest-house. The church is to be down in a week they say."

Chris looked at him dully.

"All?" he said.

"All the church, my son."

Sir James gave an account of what he had seen. He had made his way in
with Nicholas and a few other persons, into the court; but had not been
allowed to enter the cloister. There was a furnace being made ready in
the calefactorium for the melting of the lead, he had been told by one
of the men; and the church, as he had seen for himself, was full of
workmen.

"And the Blessed Sacrament?" asked Chris.

"A priest was sent for this morning to carry It away to a church; I know
not which."

Sir James described the method of destruction.

They were beginning with the apse and the chapels behind the high altar.
The ornaments had been removed, the images piled in a great heap in the
outer court, and the brasses had been torn up. There were half a dozen
masons busy at undercutting the pillars and walls; and as they excavated
the carpenters made wooden insertions to prop up the weight. The men had
been brought down from London, as the commissioners were not certain of
the temper of the Lewes people. Two of the four great pillars behind the
high altar were already cut half through.

"And Ralph?"

The old man's face grew tense and bitter.

"I saw him in the roof," he said; "he made as if he did not see me."

They were half-through dinner before Nicholas joined them. He was
flushed and dusty and furious.

"Ah! the hounds!" he said, as he stood at the door, trembling. "They
say they will have the chapels down before night. They have stripped the
lead."

Sir James looked up and motioned him to sit down.

"We will go down again presently," he said.

"But we have saved our luggage," went on Nicholas, taking his seat; "and
there was a parcel of yours, Chris, that I put with it. It is all to be
sent up with the horses to-night."

"Did you speak with Mr. Ralph?" asked Dom Anthony.

"Ah! I did; the dog! and I told him what I thought. But he dared not
refuse me the luggage. John is to go for it all to-night."

He told them during dinner another fact that he had learned.

"You know who is to have it all?" he said fiercely, his fingers
twitching with emotion.

"It is Master Gregory Cromwell, and his wife, and his baby. A fine
nursery!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As the evening drew on, Chris was again at the window alone. He had said
his office earlier in the afternoon, and sat here again now, with his
hands before him, staring down at the church.

One of the servants had come up with a message from Sir James an hour
before telling him not to expect them before dusk; and that they would
send up news of any further developments. The whole town was there, said
the man: it had been found impossible to keep them out. Dom Anthony
presently came again and sat with Chris; and Mr. Morris, who had been
left as a safeguard to the monks, slipped in soon after and stood behind
the two; and so the three waited.

The sky was beginning to glow again as it had done last night with the
clear radiance of a cloudless sunset; and the tall west tower stood up
bright in the glory. How infinitely far away last night seemed now,
little and yet distinct as a landscape seen through a reversed
telescope! How far away that silent waiting at the cloister door, the
clamour at the gate, the forced entrance, the slipping away through the
church!

The smoke was rising faster than ever now from the great chimney, and
hung in a cloud above the buildings. Perhaps even now the lead was being
cast.

There was a clatter at the corner of the cobbled street below, and Dom
Anthony leaned from the window. He drew back.

"It is the horses," he said.

The servant presently came up to announce that the two gentlemen were
following immediately, and that he had had orders to procure horses and
saddle them at once. He had understood Sir James to say that they must
leave that night.

Mr. Morris hurried out to see to the packing.

In five minutes the gentlemen themselves appeared.

Sir James came quickly across to the two monks.

"We must go to-night, Chris," he sai