 My name is
Torridon, of Overfield; and I am one of the King's Visitors. Good-night,
gentlemen."

There was the silence of the grave within, as Ralph went upstairs
smiling to himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph had intended returning home a week or two after the Lewes
visitation, but there was a good deal to be done, and Layton had pointed
out to him that even if some houses were visited twice over it would do
no harm to the rich monks to pay double fees; so it was not till
Christmas was a week away that he rode at last up to his house-door at
Westminster.

His train had swelled to near a dozen men and horses by now, for he had
accumulated a good deal of treasure beside that which he had left in
Layton's hands, and it would not have been safe to travel with a smaller
escort; so it was a gay and imposing cavalcade that clattered through
the narrow streets. Ralph himself rode in front, in solitary dignity,
his weapon jingling at his stirrup, his feather spruce and bright above
his spare keen face; a couple of servants rode behind, fully armed and
formidable looking, and then the train came behind--beasts piled with
bundles that rustled and clinked suggestively, and the men who guarded
them gay with scraps of embroidery and a cheap jewel or two here and
there in their dress.

But Ralph did not feel so gallant as he looked. During these long
country rides he had had too much time to think, and the thought of
Beatrice and of what she would say seldom left him. The very harshness
of his experiences, the rough faces round him, the dialect of the stable
and the inn, the coarse conversation--all served to make her image the
more gracious and alluring. It was a kind of worship, shot with passion,
that he felt for her. Her grave silences coincided with his own, her
tenderness yielded deliciously to his strength.

As he sat over his fire with his men whispering behind him, planning as
they thought new assaults on the rich nests that they all hated and
coveted together, again and again it was Beatrice's face, and not that
of a shrewd or anxious monk, that burned in the red heart of the hearth.
He had seen it with downcast eyes, with the long lashes lying on the
cheek, and the curved red lips discreetly shut beneath; the masses of
black hair shadowed the forehead and darkened the secret that he wished
to read. Or he had watched her, like a jewel in a pig-sty, looking
across the foul-littered farm where he had had to sleep more than once
with his men about him; her black eyes looking into his own with tender
gravity, and her mouth trembling with speech. Or best of all, as he rode
along the bitter cold lanes at the fall of the day, the crowding yews
above him had parted and let her stand there, with her long skirts
rustling in the dry leaves, her slender figure blending with the
darkness, and her sweet face trusting and loving him out of the gloom.

And then again, like the prick of a wound, the question had touched him,
how would she receive him when he came back with the monastic spoils on
his beasts' shoulders, and the wail of the nuns shrilling like the wind
behind?

But by the time that he came back to London he had thought out his
method of meeting her. Probably she had had news of the doings of the
Visitors, perhaps of his own in particular; it was hardly possible that
his father had not written; she would ask for an explanation, and she
should have instead an appeal to her confidence. He would tell her that
sad things had indeed happened, that he had been forced to be present at
and even to carry out incidents which he deplored; but that he had done
his utmost to be merciful. It was rough work, he would say; but it was
work that had to be done; and since that was so--and this was Cromwell's
teaching--it was better that honourable gentlemen should do it. He had
not been able always to restrain the violence of his men--and for that
he needed forgiveness from her dear lips; and it would be easy enough to
tell stories against him that it would be hard to disprove; but if she
loved and trusted him, and he knew that she did, let her take his word
for it that no injustice had been deliberately done, that on the other
hand he had been the means under God of restraining many such acts, and
that his conscience was clear.

It was a moving appeal, Ralph thought, and it almost convinced himself.
He was not conscious of any gross insincerity in the defence; of course
it was shaded artistically, and the more brutal details kept out of
sight, but in the main it was surely true. And, as he rehearsed its
points to himself once more in the streets of Westminster, he felt that
though there might be a painful moment or two, yet it would do his work.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had sent a message home that he was coming, and the door of his home
was wide as he dismounted, and the pleasant light of candles shone out,
for the evening was smouldering to dark in the west.

A crowd had collected as he went along; from every window faces were
leaning; and as he stood on the steps directing the removal of the
treasure int