d by broad platforms and a strip of turf
with steps leading down to the water, and at each of these entrances
there continually moved brilliant figures, sentries with the sunlight
flashing on their steel caps and pike-points, servants in the royal
livery, watermen in their blue and badges.

Here and there at the foot of the steps rocked gaudy barges, a mass of
gilding and colour, with broad low canopies at the stern, and flags
drooping at the prow; wherries moved to and fro, like water-beetles,
shooting across from bank to bank with passengers, above and below the
palace, or pausing with uplifted oars as the stream swept them down, for
the visitors to stare and marvel at the great buildings. Behind rose up
the green masses of trees against the sloping park. And over all lay the
July sky, solemn flakes of cloud drifting across a field of intense
blue.

There had been a delay in the fulfilment of the Archbishop's promise; at
one time he himself was away in the country on affairs, at another time
the King was too much pressed, Cranmer reported, to have such a matter
brought before him; and then suddenly a messenger had come across from
Lambeth with a letter, bidding them present themselves at Greenwich on
the following morning; for the day following that had been fixed for
Cromwell's execution, and the Archbishop hoped that the King would be
ready to hear a word on behalf of the agent whose loyalty had failed to
save his master.

       *       *       *       *       *

The boatman suddenly backed water with his left-hand oar, took a stroke
or two with his right, glancing over his shoulder; and the boat slid up
to the foot of the steps.

A couple of watermen were already waiting there, in the Archbishop's
livery, and steadied the boat for the four gentlemen to step out; and a
moment later the four were standing on the platform, looking about them.

They were at one of the smaller entrances to the palace, up-stream. A
hundred yards further down was the royal entrance, canopied and
carpeted, with the King's barge rocking at the foot, a number of
servants coming and going on the platform, and the great state windows
overlooking all; but here they were in comparative quiet. A small
doorway with its buff and steel-clad sentry before it opened on their
right into the interior of the palace.

One of the watermen saluted the party.

"Master Torridon?" he said.

Chris assented.

"My Lord bade me take you through to him, sir, as soon as you arrived."

He went before them to the door, said a word to the guard, and then the
party passed on through the little entrance-hall into the interior. The
corridor was plainly and severely furnished with matting under-foot,
chairs here and there set along the wainscot, pieces of stuff with
crossed pikes between hanging on the walls; through the bow windows
they caught a glimpse now and again of a little court or two, a
shrubbery and a piece of lawn, and once a vista of the park where Henry
in his younger days used to hold his May-revels, a gallant and princely
figure all in green from cap to shoes, breakfasting beneath the trees.

Continually, as they went, first in the corridor and then through the
waiting rooms at the end, they passed others going to and fro, servants
hurrying on messages, leisurely and magnificent persons with their hats
on, pages standing outside closed doors; and twice they were asked their
business.

"For my Lord of Canterbury," answered the waterman each time.

It seemed to Chris that they must have gone an immense distance before
the waterman at last stopped, motioning them to go on, and a page in
purple livery stepped forward from a door.

"For my Lord of Canterbury," said the waterman for the last time.

The page bowed, turned, and threw open the door.

They found themselves in a square parlour, carpeted and hung with
tapestries from floor to ceiling. A second door opened beyond, in the
window side, into another room. A round table stood in the centre, with
brocaded chairs about it, and a long couch by the fireplace. Opposite
rose up the tall windows through which shone the bright river with the
trees and buildings on the north bank beyond.

They had hardly spoken a word to one another since they had left
Charing, for all that was possible had been said during the weeks of
waiting for the Archbishop's summons.

Cranmer had received them kindly, though he had not committed himself
beyond promising to introduce them to the King, and had expressed no
opinion on the case.

He had listened to them courteously, had nodded quietly as Chris
explained what it was that Ralph had done, and then almost without
comment had given his promise. It seemed as if the Archbishop could not
even form an opinion, and still less express one, until he had heard
what his Highness had to say.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris walked to the window and the lawyer followed him.

"Placentia!" said Mr. Herries, "I do not wonder at it. It is even more
pleasing from within."

He stood, a prim, black figure, looking out at the glorious view, the
shining waterway studded with spots of colour, t