he long bank of the
river opposite, and the spires of London city lying in a blue heat-haze
far away to the left.

Chris stared at it too, but with unseeing eyes. It seemed as if all
power of sensation had left him. The suspense of the last weeks had
corroded the surfaces of his soul, and the intensity to which it was now
rising seemed to have paralysed what was left. He found himself
picturing the little house at Charing where Beatrice was waiting, and,
he knew, praying; and he reminded himself that the next time he saw her
he would know all, whether death or life was to be Ralph's sentence. The
solemn quiet and the air of rich and comfortable tranquillity which the
palace wore, and which had impressed itself on his mind even in the
hundred yards he had walked in it, gave him an added sense of what it
was that lay over his brother, the huge passionless forces with which he
had become entangled.

Then he turned round. His father was sitting at the table, his head on
his hand; and Nicholas was staring round the grave room with the
solemnity of a child, looking strangely rustic and out of place in these
surroundings.

It was very quiet as Chris leaned against the window-shutter, in his
secular habit, with his hands clasped behind his back, and looked. Once
a footstep passed in the corridor outside, and the floor vibrated
slightly to the tread; once a horn blew somewhere far away; and from the
river now and again came the cry of a waterman, or the throb of oars in
rowlocks.

Sir James looked up once, opened his lips as if to speak; and then
dropped his head on to his hand again.

The waiting seemed interminable.

Chris turned round to the window once more, slipped his breviary out of
his pocket, and opened it. He made the sign of the cross and began--

_"In nomine Patris et Filii...."_

Then the second door opened; he turned back abruptly; there was a rustle
of silk, and the Archbishop came through in his habit and gown.

Chris bowed slightly as the prelate went past him briskly towards the
table where Sir James was now standing up, and searched his features
eagerly for an omen. There was nothing to be read there; his smooth
large-eyed face was smiling quietly as its manner was, and his wide lips
were slightly parted.

"Good-day, Master Torridon; you are in good time. I am just come from
His Highness, and will take you to him directly."

Chris saw his father's face blanch a little as he bowed in return.
Nicholas merely stared.

"But we have a few minutes," went on the Archbishop. "Sir Thomas
Wriothesly is with him. Tell me again sir, what you wish me to say."

Sir James looked hesitatingly to the lawyer.

"Mr. Herries," he said.

Cranmer turned round, and again made that little half-deprecating bow to
the priest and the lawyer. Mr. Herries stepped forward as Cranmer sat
down, clasping his hands so that the great amethyst showed on his
slender finger.

"It is this, my Lord," he said, "it is as we told your Lordship at
Lambeth. This gentleman desires the King's clemency towards Mr. Ralph
Torridon, now in the Tower. Mr. Torridon has served--er--Mr. Cromwell
very faithfully. We wish to make no secret of that. He destroyed certain
private papers--though that cannot be proved against him, and you will
remember that we were doubtful whether his Highness should be informed
of that--"

Sir James broke in suddenly.

"I have been thinking of that, my Lord. I would sooner that the King's
Grace knew everything. I have no wish that that should be kept from
him."

The Archbishop who had been looking with smiling attention from one to
the other, now himself broke in.

"I am glad you think that, sir. I think so myself. Though it cannot be
proved as you say, it is far best that His Grace should know all. Indeed
I think I should have told him in any case."

"Then, my Lord, if you think well," went on Mr. Herries, "you might lay
before his Grace that this is a free and open confession. Mr. Torridon
did burn papers, and important ones; but they would not have served
anything. Master Cromwell was cast without them."

"But Mr. Torridon did not know that?" questioned the Archbishop blandly.

"Yes, my Lord," cried Sir James, "he must have known--that my Lord
Cromwell--"

The Archbishop lifted his hand delicately.

"Master Cromwell," he corrected.

"Master Cromwell," went on the old man, "he must have known that Mr.
Cromwell had others, more important, that would be certainly found and
used against him."

"Then why did he burn them? You understand, sir, that I only wish to
know what I have to say to his Grace."

"He burned them, my Lord, because he could not bear that his hand should
be lifted against his master. Surely that is but loyal and good!"

The Archbishop nodded quietly three or four times.

"And you desire that his Grace will take order to have Mr. Torridon
released?"

"That is it, my Lord," said the lawyer.

"Yes, I understand. And can you give any pledge for Mr. Torridon's good
behaviour?"

"He has served Mr. Cromwell," answered the lawyer, "very well for many
years. He has been with him in the matter of the Religious Houses; he
was one of t