as a fact.
Do you see? ... Shall we sit down for a few minutes? Aren't the
gardens exquisite?"



(III)

Monsignor Masterman sat that night at his window, looking out at
the stars and the night and the blotted glimmering gardens
beneath; and it seemed to him as if the Dream deepened every day.
Things grew more, not less marvellous, with his appreciation of
the simplicity of it all.

From three to seven he had sat in one of the seats on the right
of the royal dais, reserved for prelates, almost immediately
opposite the double-pulpited platform, itself set in the midst of
the long outer side of the great gallery of Versailles, through
which access was to be had to the little old private rooms of
Marie Antoinette, and had listened spell-bound to two of the
greatest wits of France, respectively attacking and defending,
with extraordinary subtlety and fire, the claim of the Church to
Infallibility. The disputation had been conducted on scholastic
lines, all verbal etiquette being carefully observed; again and
again he had heard, first on one side a string of arguments
adduced against the doctrine, then on the other a torrent of
answers, with the old half-remembered words "Distinguo," "Nego,"
"Concedo"; and the reasoning on both sides had appeared to him
astonishingly brilliant. And all this before two sovereigns:
the one keen, vivacious, and appreciative; the other heavy,
patient, considerate--two sovereigns, treated, as the elaborate
etiquette of the whole affair showed plainly enough, as kings
indeed--men who stood for authority, and the grades and the
differentiation of functions, as emphatically as the old
democratic hand-shaking statesmen, dressed like their own
servants, stood for the other complementary principle of the
equality of men. For alongside of all this tremendous pomp there
was a very practical recognition of the "People"; since the whole
disputation was conducted in the presence of a crowd drawn, it
seemed, from almost every class, who pressed behind the barriers,
murmured, laughed gleefully, and now and again broke out into
low thunders of applause, as the Catholic champion drove logic
home, or turned aside the infidel shaft.

The very thesis amazed the man, for the absolute necessity of an
authoritative supra-national Church, with supernatural sanctions,
seemed assumed as an axiom of thought, not merely by these
Catholics, but by the entire world, Christian and un-Christian
alike. More than once the phrase "It is conceded by all men"
flashed out, and passed unrebuked, in support of this claim. The
only point of dispute between reasoning beings seemed to be not
as to whether or no the Church must be treated practically as
infallible, but whether dogmatically and actually she were so!

As he sat here now at his window, Father Jervis' words began to
come back with new force. Was it indeed true that the only reason
why he found these things strange was that he could not yet quite
bring home to his imagination the fact that the world now was
convincedly Christian as a whole? It began to appear so.

For somewhere in the back of his mind (why, he knew not) there
lurked a sort of only half-perceived assumption that the
Catholic religion was but one aspect of truth--one point of view
from which, with sufficient though not absolute truth, facts
could be discerned. He could not understand this; yet there it
was. And he understood, at any rate intellectually, that if he
could once realize that the dogmas of the Church were the dogmas
of the universe; and not only that, but that the world
convincedly realized it too;--why then, the fact that the
civilization of to-day was actually moulded upon it would no
longer bewilder him.



(IV)

It was on the following morning that he spoke with the King.

The two priests had said Mass in their oratory, and an hour later
were walking in the park beneath the palace windows.

It was one more of that string of golden days, of which they had
already enjoyed so many, and the splendour of that amazing
landscape was complete.

They had passed below the enclosure known as the "King's Garden,"
and were going in the direction of the Trianon, which Monsignor
had expressed a desire to see, and had just emerged into the
immense central avenue which runs straight from the palace to the
lake. Above them rose the forest trees, enormous now, yet tamed
by Lenotre's marvellous art, resembling a regiment of giants
perfectly drilled; the grass was like carpets on all sides; the
sky blazed like a blue jewel overhead; the noise of singing birds
and falling water was in the air. But above all there towered on
their right, beyond the almost endless terraces, the splendid
palace of the kings of France, royal at last once more. And
there, as symbol of the Restoration, there hung round the
flagstaff as he had seen it yesterday the blue folds and the
lilies of the monarchy.

It was no good trying to frame words as to what he felt. He had
said all he could, and it was useless. Father Jervis seemed
unable to understand the fierce enthusiasm of a man who now
experienced all this, as it appeared, for the first time.