"Well, well. . . . Now, Monsignor, kindly loosen your waistcoat,
so that I can get at your breast and back."

"Is it a stethoscope?"

"Something like it," smiled the doctor. "But how did you know
that name? Never mind. Now then, please."

He placed the camera affair on the corner of the table near the
arm-chair; and then, very rapidly, began to affix the discs--it
seemed by some process of air-exhaustion--all over the head,
breast, and back of the amazed man. No sensation followed this at
all, except the very faint feeling of skin-contraction at each
point of contact.

"May I have that blind down, your Eminence? . . . Ah! that's
better. Now then."

He bent closely over the square box on the table, and seemed to
peer at something inside. The others kept silence.

"Well?" asked the Cardinal at last.

"Perfectly satisfactory, your Eminence. There is a very faint
discoloration, but no more than is usual in a man of Monsignor's
temperament at any excitement. There is absolutely nothing wrong,
and--Monsignor," he continued, looking straight at the
wire-bedecked invalid, "not the very faintest indication of
anything even approaching insanity or imbecility."

The man who had lost his memory drew a swift breath.

"May I see, doctor?" asked the Cardinal suavely.

"Certainly, your Eminence; and Monsignor can look
himself, if he likes."

When the other two had looked, the sick man himself was given the box.

"(Carefully with that wire, please.) There!" said the doctor.
"Look down there."

In the centre of the box, shielded by a little plate of glass,
there appeared a small semi-luminous globe. This globe seemed
tinted with slightly wavering colours, in which a greyish blue
predominated; but, almost like a pulse, there moved across it
from time to time a very pale red tint, suffusing it, and then
dying away again.

"What is it?" asked the man in the chair hoarsely, lifting his head.

"That, my dear Monsignor," explained the doctor carefully, "is a
reflection of your physical condition. It is an exceedingly
simple, though of course very delicate instrument. The method
was discovered---"

"Is it anything to do with magnetism?"

"They used to call it that, I think. It's got several names now.
All mental disturbance has, of course, a physical side to it, and
that is how we are able to record it physically. It was
discovered by a monk, of course."

"But . . . but it's marvellous."

"Everything is marvellous, Monsignor. Certainly this, however,
caused a revolution. It became the symbol of the whole modern
method of medicine."

"What's that?" The doctor laughed.

"That's a large question," he said.

"But . . ."

"Well, in a word, it's the old system turned upside down. A
century ago when a man was ill they began by doctoring his body.
Now, when a man's ill, they begin by doctoring his mind. You see
the mind is much more the man than the body is, as Theology
always taught us. Therefore by dealing with the mind----"

"But that's Christian Science!"

The doctor looked bewildered.

"It was an old heresy, doctor," put in the Cardinal, smiling,
"that denied the reality of matter. No, Monsignor, we don't deny
the reality of matter. It's perfectly real. Only, as the doctor
says, we prefer to attack the real root of the disease, rather
than its physical results. We still use drugs; but only to remove
painful symptoms."

"That . . . that sounds all right," stammered the man, bewildered
by the simplicity of it. "Then . . . then do you mean, your
Eminence, that physical diseases are treated---?"

"There are no physical diseases left," put in the doctor. "Of
course there are accidents and external physical injuries; but
practically all the rest have disappeared. Very nearly all of
them were carried by the blood, and, by dealing with this, the
tissues are made immune. Our discoveries also in the region of
innervation----"

"But . . . but . . . are there no diseases then?"

"Why, yes, Monsignor," interrupted the Cardinal, with the patient
air of one talking to a child, "there are hundreds of those; and
they are very real indeed; but they are almost entirely
mental--or psychical, as some call them. And there are
specialists on all of these. Bad habits of thought, for example,
always set up some kind of disease; and there are hospitals for
these; and even isolation homes."

"Forgive me, your Eminence," put in the doctor, with a certain
imperiousness, "but I think we ought not to talk to Monsignor too
much on this subject. May I put a question or two?"

"I beg your pardon, doctor. Certainly. Put any question you wish."

The doctor sat down again.

"Have you been in the habit of saying Mass every day, Monsignor?"

"I . . . I don't know," said the invalid.

"Yes, doctor," put in Father Jervis.

"And confession once a week?"

"Twice a week," said Father Jervis. "I am Monsignor's confessor."

"Very good," said the doctor. "For the present, as far as I am
concerned, I should recommend confession only once a fortnight as
a general rule. Mass can be as before. Then Monsignor may say
half of his office every day, or the rosary; but not both. And no
other devotions of an