d its blue; it appeared painted
with a muddy brush, and the sun shewed the same faint tinge of red. Yes,
it was like that, he said wearily to himself--like a second-rate sketch;
there was no sense of mystery as of a veiled city, but rather unreality.
The shadows seemed lacking in definiteness, the outlines and grouping in
coherence. A storm was wanted, he reflected; or even, it might be, one
more earthquake on the other side of the world would, in wonderful
illustration of the globe's unity, relieve the pressure on this side.
Well, well; the journey would be worth taking even for the interest of
observing climatic changes; but it would be terribly hot, he mused, by
the time the south of France was reached.

Then his thoughts leaped back to their own gnawing misery.

* * * * *

It was another ten minutes before he saw the scarlet Government motor,
with awnings out, slide up the road from the direction of Fulham; and
yet five minutes more before the three men appeared with their servants
behind them--Maxwell, Snowford and Cartwright, all alike, as was Oliver,
in white duck from head to foot.

They did not speak one word of their business, for the officials were
going to and fro, and it was advisable to guard against even the
smallest possibility of betrayal. The guard had been told that the volor
was required for a three days' journey, that provisions were to be taken
in for that period, and that the first point towards which the course
was to lie was the centre of the South Downs. There would be no stopping
for at least a day and a night.

Further instructions had reached them from the President on the previous
morning, by which time He had completed His visitation, and received the
assent of the Emergency Councils of the world. This Snowford commented
upon in an undertone, and added a word or two as to details, as the four
stood together looking out over the city.

Briefly, the plan was as follows, at least so far as it concerned
England. The volor was to approach Palestine from the direction of the
Mediterranean, observing to get into touch with France on her left and
Spain on her right within ten miles of the eastern end of Crete. The
approximate hour was fixed at twenty-three (eastern time). At this point
she was to show her night signal, a scarlet line on a white field; and
in the event of her failing to observe her neighbours was to circle at
that point, at a height of eight hundred feet, until either the two were
sighted or further instructions were received. For the purpose of
dealing with emergencies, the President's car, which would finally make
its entrance from the south, was to be accompanied by an _aide-de-camp_
capable of moving at a very high speed, whose signals were to be taken
as Felsenburgh's own.

So soon as the circle was completed, having Esdraelon as its centre with
a radius of five hundred and forty miles, the volors were to advance,
dropping gradually to within five hundred feet of sea-level, and
diminishing their distance one from another from the twenty-five miles
or so at which they would first find themselves, until they were as near
as safety allowed. In this manner the advance at a pace of fifty miles
an hour from the moment that the circle was arranged would bring them
within sight of Nazareth at about nine o'clock on the Sunday morning.

* * * * *

The guard came up to the four as they stood there silent.

"We are ready, gentlemen," he said.

"What do you think of the weather?" asked Snowford abruptly.

The guard pursed his lips.

"A little thunder, I expect, sir," he said.

Oliver looked at him curiously.

"No more than that?" he asked.

"I should say a storm, sir," observed the guard shortly.

Snowford turned towards the gangway.

"Well, we had best be off: we can lose time further on, if we wish."

It was about five minutes more before all was ready. From the stern of
the boat came a faint smell of cooking, for breakfast would be served
immediately, and a white-capped cook protruded his head for an instant,
to question the guard. The four sat down in the gorgeous saloon in the
bows; Oliver silent by himself, the other three talking in low voices
together. Once more the guard passed through to his compartment at the
prow, glancing as he went to see that all were seated; and an instant
later came the clang of the signal. Then through all the length of the
boat--for she was the fastest ship that England possessed--passed the
thrill of the propeller beginning to work up speed; and simultaneously
Oliver, staring sideways through the plate-glass window, saw the rail
drop away, and the long line of London, pale beneath the tinged sky,
surge up suddenly. He caught a glimpse of a little group of persons
staring up from below, and they, too, dropped in a great swirl, and
vanished. Then, with a flash of dusty green, the Common bad vanished,
and a pavement of house-roofs began to stream beneath, the long lines of
streets on this side and that turning like spokes of a gigantic wheel;
once more this pavement thinned, showing green again as between
infrequently laid cobble-stones; then they, too, were go