ittle; and his mouth was tight and firm. He seemed not to be
aware of Nicholas's presence.

"To hinder the play-acting," said his father.

There fell a dead silence again.

"I will do it, sir," said his son. "It--it is but decent."

And in the moment of profound astonishment that fell, he came straight
across the room, passed by them all without turning his head, and went
out.

Beatrice felt a fierce emotion grip her throat as she looked after him,
and saw the door close. Then Margaret seized her again, and she turned
to quiet her.

She was aware that Sir James had gone out after his son, after a moment
of silence, and she heard his footsteps pass along the flags outside.

"Oh! God bless him!" sobbed Margaret.

Sir James came back immediately, shook his head, went across the room,
and sat down in the seat that Ralph had left. A dreadful stillness fell.
Margaret was quiet now. Mary was sitting with her husband on the other
side of the hearth. Chris rose presently and sat down by his father, but
no one spoke a word.

Then Nicholas got up uneasily, came across the room, and stood with his
back to the hearth warming himself. Beatrice saw him glance now and
again to the shadowed window-seat where the two men sat; he hummed a
note or two to himself softly; then turned round and stared at the fire
with outstretched hands.

The bell rang for prayers, and still without a word being spoken they
all got up and went out.

In the same silence they came back. Ralph's servant was standing by the
door as they entered.

"If you please, sir, Mr. Ralph is come in. He bade me tell you that all
is arranged."

The old man looked at him, swallowed once in his throat; and at last
spoke.

"It is arranged, you say? It will not take place?"

"It will not take place, sir."

"Where is Mr. Ralph?"

"He is gone to his room, sir. He bade me tell you he would be leaving
early for London."




CHAPTER VI

A CATASTROPHE


Ralph rode away early next morning, yet not so early as to escape an
interview with his father. They met in the hall, Sir James in his loose
morning gown and Ralph booted and spurred with his short cloak and tight
cap. The old man took him by the sleeve, drawing him to the fire that
burned day and night in winter.

"Ralph--Ralph, my son," he said, "I must thank you for last night."

"You have to thank yourself only, sir, and my mother. I could do no
otherwise."

"It is you--" began his father.

"It is certainly not Nick, sir. The hot fool nearly provoked me."

"But you hate such mummery yourself, my son?"

Ralph hesitated.

"It is not seemly--" began his father again.

"It is certainly not seemly; but neither are the common folk seemly."

"Did you have much business with them, my son?" Ralph smiled in the
firelight.

"Why, no, sir. I told them who I was. I charged myself with the burden."

"And you will not be in trouble with my Lord?"

"My Lord has other matters to think of than a parcel of mummers."

Then they separated; and Ralph rode down the drive with his servants
behind him. Neither father nor son had said a word of any return.
Neither had Ralph had one private word with Beatrice during his three
days' stay. Once he had come into the parlour to find her going out at
the other door; and he had wondered whether she had heard his step and
gone out on purpose. But he knew very well that under the superficial
courtesy between him and her there lay something deeper--some passionate
emotion vibrated like a beam between them; but he did not know, even on
his side and still less on hers, whether that emotion were one of love
or loathing. It was partly from the discomfort of the charged
atmosphere, partly from a shrinking from thanks and explanations that he
had determined to go up to London a day earlier than he had intended; he
had a hatred of personal elaborateness.

       *       *       *       *       *

He found Cromwell, on his arrival in London, a little less moody than he
had been in the previous week; for he was busy with preparations for the
Parliament that was to meet in April; and to the occupation that this
gave him there was added a good deal of business connected with Henry's
negotiations with the Emperor. The dispute, that at present centred
round the treatment of Englishmen in Spain, and other similar matters,
in reality ran its roots far deeper; and there were a hundred details
which occupied the minister. But there was still a hint of storm in the
air; Cromwell spoke brusquely once or twice without cause, and Ralph
refrained from saying anything about the affair at Overfield, but took
up his own work again quietly.

A fortnight later, however, he heard of it once more.

He was sitting at a second table in Cromwell's own room in the Rolls
House, when one of the secretaries came up with a bundle of reports, and
laid them as usual before Ralph.

Ralph finished the letter he was engaged on--one to Dr. Barnes who had
preached a Protestant sermon at Paul's Cross, and who now challenged
Bishop Gardiner to a public disputation. Ralph was telling him to keep
his pugnacity to himself; and when he had done took up the reports and
ran