r God's sake, get you gone, you who mean
to go; and let us who are steadfast serve our Lord in peace."

Chris looked along the few faces that were left; but they were downcast
and sedate, and showed no sign of emotion.

Dom Anthony waited a moment longer, and then gave the signal to depart.
By a week later the two were left alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was very strange to be there, in the vast house and church, and to
live the old life now stripped of three-fourths of its meaning; but they
did not allow one detail to suffer that it was possible to preserve. The
_opus Dei_ was punctually done, and God was served in psalmody. At the
proper hours the two priests met in the cloister, cowled and in their
choir-shoes, and walked through to the empty stalls; and there, one on
either side, each answered the other, bowed together at the _Gloria_,
confessed and absolved alternately. Two masses were said each day in the
huge lonely church, one at the high altar and the other at our Lady's,
and each monk served the other. In the refectory one read from the
pulpit as the other sat at the table; and the usual forms were observed
with the minutest care. In the chapter each morning they met for mutual
confession and accusation; and in the times between the exercises and
meals each worked feverishly at the details that alone made the life
possible.

They were assisted in this by two paid servants, who were sent to them
by Chris's father, for both the lay-brothers and the servants had gone
with the rest; and the treasurer had disappeared with the money.

Chris had written to Sir James the day that the last monk had gone,
telling him the state of affairs, and how the larder was almost empty;
and by the next evening the servants had arrived with money and
provisions; and a letter from Sir James written from a sick-bed, saying
that he was unable to come for the present, for he had taken the fever,
and that Morris would not leave him, but expressing a hope that he would
come soon in person, and that Morris should be sent in a few days. The
latter ended with passionate approval of his son's action.

"God bless and reward you, dear lad!" he had written. "I cannot tell you
the joy that it is to my heart to know that you are faithful. It cannot
be for long; but whether it is for long and short, you shall have my
prayers and blessings; and please God, my poor presence too after a few
days. May our Lady and your holy patron intercede for you both who are
so worthy of their protection!"

       *       *       *       *       *

At the end of the second week in March Mr. Morris arrived.

Chris was taking the air in the court shortly before sunset, after a
hard day's work in church. The land was beginning to stir with the
resurrection-life of spring; and the hills set round the town had that
faint flush of indescribable colour that tinges slopes of grass as the
sleeping sap begins to stir. The elm-trees in the court were hazy with
growth as the buds fattened at the end of every twig, and a group of
daffodils here and there were beginning to burst their sheaths of gold.
There on the little lawn before the guest-house were half a dozen white
and lavender patches of colour that showed where the crocuses would star
the grass presently; and from the high west front of the immense church,
and from beneath the eaves of the offices to the right the birds were
practising the snatches of song that would break out with full melody a
month or two later.

In spite of all that threatened, Chris was in an ecstasy of happiness.
It rushed down on him, overwhelmed and enveloped him; for he knew now
that he had been faithful. The flood of praise in the church had
dwindled to a thread; but it was still the _opus Dei_, though it flowed
but from two hearts; and the pulse of the heavenly sacrifice still
throbbed morning by morning, and the Divine Presence still burned as
unceasingly as the lamp that beaconed it, in the church that was now all
but empty of its ministers. There were times when the joy that was in
his heart trembled into tears, as when last night he and his friend had
sung the song to Mary; and the contrast between the two poor voices,
and the roar of petition that had filled the great vaulting a year
before, had suddenly torn his heart in two.

But now the poignant sorrow had gone again; and as he walked here alone
on this March evening, with the steady hills about him and the flushing
sky overhead, and the sweet life quickening in the grass at his feet, an
extraordinary peace flooded his soul.

There came a knocking at the gate, and the jangle of a bell; and he went
across quickly and unbarred the door.

Mr. Morris was there on horseback, a couple of saddlebags strapped to
his beast; and a little group of loungers stood behind.

Chris smiled with delight, and threw the door wide.

The servant saluted him and then turned to the group behind.

"You have no authority," he said, "as to my going in."

Then he rode through; and Chris barred the gate behind him, glancing as
he did so at the curious faces that stared silently.

Mr. Morris said n