aw
Ralph dazed and trembling at the table. Then they were out in the road
through the open gate and a long moan broke from her father.

"Oh! God forgive me," he said, "have I failed?"




CHAPTER VI

A NUN'S DEFIANCE


It was a very strange evening that Mary and her father passed in the
little upstairs room looking on to the street at Rusper.

Sir James had hardly spoken, and after supper had sat near the window,
with a curious alertness in his face. Mary knew that Chris was expected,
and that Mr. Morris had ridden on to fetch him after he had called at
Overfield, but from her short interview with Margaret she had seen that
his presence would not be required. The young nun, though bewildered and
stunned by the news that she must go, had not wavered for a moment as
regards her intention to follow out her Religious vocation in some
manner; and it was to confirm her in it, in case she hesitated, that Sir
James had sent on the servant to fetch Chris.

It was all like a dreadful dream to Mary.

She had gone out from dinner at her own house into the pleasant October
sunshine with her cheerful husband beside her, when her father had come
out through the house with his riding-whip in his hand; and in a few
seconds she had found herself plunged into new and passionate relations,
first with him, for she had never seen him so stirred, and then with her
brothers and sister. Ralph, that dignified man of affairs, suddenly
stepped into her mind as a formidable enemy of God and man; Chris
appeared as a spiritual power, and the quiet Margaret as the very centre
of the sudden storm.

She sat here now by the fire, shading her face with her hand and
watching that familiar face set in hard and undreamed lines of passion
and resolution and expectancy.

Once as footsteps came up the street he had started up and sat down
trembling.

She waited till the steps went past, and then spoke.

"Chris will be riding, father."

He nodded abruptly, and she saw by his manner that it was not Chris he
was expecting. She understood then that he still had hopes of his other
son, but they sat on into the night in the deep stillness, till the fire
burned low and red, and the stars she had seen at the horizon wheeled up
and out of sight above the window-frame.

Then he suddenly turned to her.

"You must go to bed, Mary," he said. "I will wait for Chris."

She lay long awake in the tiny cupboard-room that the labourer and his
wife had given up to her, hearing the horses stamp in the cold shed at
the back of the house, and the faces moved and turned like the colours
of a kaleidoscope. Now her father's eyes and mouth hung like a mask
before her, with that terrible look that had been on them as he faced
Ralph at the end; now Ralph's own face, defiant, icy, melting in turns;
now Margaret's with wide terrified eyes, as she had seen it in the
parlour that afternoon; now her own husband's. And the sweet autumn
woods and meadows lay before her as she had seen them during that silent
ride; the convent, the village, her own home with its square windows and
yew hedge--a hundred images.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a talking when she awoke for the last time and through the
crazy door glimmered a crack of grey dawn, and as she listened she knew
that Chris was come.

It was a strange meeting when she came out a few minutes later. There
was the monk, unshaven and pale under the eyes, with his thinned face
that gave no smile as she came in; her father desperately white and
resolved; Mr. Morris, spruce and grave as usual sitting with his hat
between his knees behind the others;--he rose deferentially as she came
in and remained standing.

Her father began abruptly as she appeared.

"He can do nothing," he said, "he can but turn her on to the road. And I
do not think he will dare."

"Ah! Beatrice Atherton?" questioned Mary, who had a clearer view of the
situation now.

"Yes--Beatrice Atherton. He fears that we shall tell her. He cannot send
Margaret to Overfield or Great Keynes now."

"And if he turns her out after all?"

Sir James looked at her keenly.

"We must leave the rest to God," he said.

The village was well awake by the time that they had finished their talk
and had had something to eat. The drama at the convent had leaked out
through the boy who served the altar there, and a little group was
assembled opposite the windows of the cottage to which the monk had been
seen to ride up an hour or two before. It seemed strange that no priest
had been near them, but it was fairly evident that the terror was too
great.

As the four came out on to the road, a clerical cap peeped for a moment
from the churchyard wall and disappeared again.

They went down towards the convent along the grey road, in the pale
autumn morning air. Mary still seemed to herself to walk in a dream,
with her father and brother on either side masquerading in strange
character; the familiar atmosphere had been swept from them, the
background of association was gone, and they moved now in a new scene
with new parts to play that were bringing out powers which she had never
suspected in them.