hispered Chris.

"The sooner the better," said the doctor; "there is no telling."

Chris rose swiftly from his knees, and made a sharp sign to Morris. Then
he sank down once more, looking round, and lifted the purple stole from
the floor where he had laid it the evening before; and even as he did so
his soul revolted.

He looked up at Beatrice. Would not she understand the unchivalry of the
act? But the will in her eyes compelled him.--Yes, yes! Who could set a
limit to mercy?

He slipped the strip over his shoulders, and again bent down over his
brother, with one arm across the motionless body. Beatrice and Sir James
were on their knees by now. Nicholas was busy with Morris at the further
end of the room. The doctor was gone.

There was a profound silence now outside as the priest bent lower and
lower till his lips almost touched the ear of the dying man; and every
word of the broken abrupt sentences was audible to all in the room.

"Ralph--Ralph--dear brother. You are at the point of death. I must
shrive you. You have sinned very deeply against God and man. I shall
anoint you afterwards. Make an act of sorrow in your heart for all your
sins; it will stand for confession. Think of Jesu's love, and of His
death on the bitter cross--the wounds that He bore for us in love. Give
me a sign if you can that you repent."

Chris spoke rapidly, and leaned back a moment. Now he was terrified of
waiting--he did not know how long it would be; but for an intent instant
he stared down on the shadowed face.

Again the eyelids flickered; the lips formed words, and ceased again.

The priest glanced up, scarcely knowing why; and then again lowered
himself that if it were possible Ralph might hear.

Then he spoke, with a tense internal effort as if to drive the grace
home....

"_Ego te absolvo ab omnibus censuris et peccatis, in nomine Patris_--"
He raised himself a little and lifted his hand, moving it sideways
across and down as he ended--"_et Filii et Spiritus Sancti_."

       *       *       *       *       *

The priest rose up once more, his duty driving his emotion down; he did
not dare to look across at the two figures beyond the bed, or even to
question himself again as to what he was doing.

The two men at the further end of the room were waiting now; they had
lifted the candles and crucifix off the table, and set them on the bench
by the side.

Chris went swiftly across the room, dropped on one knee, rose again,
lifted the veiled vessel that stood in the centre, with the little linen
cloth beneath, and set it all down on the bench. He knelt again, went a
step aside back to the table, lifted the other vessel, and signed with
his head.

The two men grasped the ends of the table, and carried it across the
floor to the end of the bed. Chris followed and set down the sacred oils
upon it.

"The cross and one candle," he whispered sharply.

A minute later he was standing by the bed once more.

"_Oremus_--" he began, reading rapidly off the book that Beatrice held
steadily beneath his eyes.

"_Almighty Everlasting God, who through blessed James Thy Apostle, hast
spoken, saying, Is any sick among you, let him call the priests of the
Church_--" (The lips of the dying man were moving again at the sound of
the words; was it in protest or in faith?)--" ... _that is what is done
without through our ministry, may be wrought within spiritually by Thy
divine power, and invisibly by Thy healing; through our Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen._"

The lips were moving faster than ever on the pillow; the head was
beginning to turn from side to side, and the mouth lay open.

"_Usquequo, Domine_" ... began Beatrice.

Chris dipped his thumb in the vessel, and sank swiftly on to his knees.

"_Per istam sanctam Unctionem_"--"_through this holy unction_...."

(The old man leaned suddenly forward on to his knees, and steadied that
rolling head in his two hands; and Chris signed firmly on the eyelids,
pressing them down and feeling the fluttering beneath his thumb as he
did so.)

" ... _And His most loving mercy, may the Lord forgive thee whatsoever
thou hast sinned through sight._"

Ah! that was done--dear God! those eyes that had drooped and sneered,
that had looked so greedily on treasure--their lids shone now with the
loving-kindness of God.

Chris snatched a morsel of wool that Morris put forward from behind,
wiped the eyelids, and dropped the fragment into the earthen basin at
his side.

"_Per istam sanctam Unctionem_...."

And the ears were anointed--the ears that had listened to Layton's
filth, to Cromwell's plotting; and to the cries of the oppressed.

The nostrils; the lips that had lied and stormed and accused against
God's people, compressed now in his father's fingers--they seemed to
sneer even now, and to writhe under the soft oil; the hands that had
been laid on God's portion, that had torn the vessels from the altar and
the cloth of gold from the treasury--those too were signed now, and lay
twitching on the coverlet.

The bed clothes at the foot of the wooden framework were lifted and laid
back as Chris passed round to the end, and the long feet, icy cold