refuse to sign almost inevitably involved
his ruin, and that not only, and not necessarily, in the worldly sense;
about that he sincerely believed he did not care; but it would mean his
exclusion from any concession that the King might afterwards make. He
certainly would not be allowed under any circumstances, to remain in the
home of his profession; and if the community was shifted he would not be
allowed to go with them. As regards the second alternative he wondered
whether it was possible to shift responsibility in that manner; as
regards the third, he knew that he had very little capability in any
case of foreseeing the course that events would take.

Then he turned it all over again, and considered the arguments for each
course. His superiors were set over him by God; it was rash to set
himself against them except in matters of the plainest conscience. Again
it was cowardly to shelter himself behind this plea and so avoid
responsibility. Lastly, he was bound to judge for himself.

The arguments twisted and turned as bewilderingly as the twining
branches of his design; and behind each by which he might climb to
decision lurked a beast. He felt helpless and dazed by the storm of
conflicting motives.

As he bent over his work he prayed for light, but the question seemed
more tangled than before; the hours were creeping in; by to-morrow he
must decide.

Then the memory of the Prior's advice to him once before came back to
his mind; this was the kind of thing, he told himself, that he must
leave to God, his own judgment was too coarse an instrument; he must
wait for a clear supernatural impulse; and as he thought of it he laid
his pencil down, dropped on to his knees, and commended it all to God,
to the Mother of God, St. Pancras, St. Peter and St. Paul. Even as he
did it, the burden lifted and he knew that he would know, when the time
came.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Petre came that night, but Chris saw no more of him than his back as
he went up the cloister with Dom Anthony to the Prior's chamber. The
Prior was not at supper, and his seat was empty in the dim refectory.

Neither was he at Compline; and it was with the knowledge that
Cromwell's man and their own Superior were together in conference, that
the monks went up the dormitory stairs that night.

But he was in his place at the chapter-mass next morning, though he
spoke to no one, and disappeared immediately afterwards.

Then at the appointed time the monks assembled in the chapter-house.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Chris came in he lifted his eyes, and saw that the room was arrayed
much as it had been at the visit of Dr. Layton and Ralph. A great table,
heaped with books and papers, stood at the upper end immediately below
the dais, and a couple of secretaries were there, sharp-looking men,
seated at either end and busy with documents.

The Prior was in his place in the shadow and was leaning over and
talking to a man who sat beside him. Chris could make out little of the
latter except that he seemed to be a sort of lawyer or clerk, and was
dressed in a dark gown and cap. He was turning over the leaves of a book
as the Prior talked, and nodded his head assentingly from time to time.

When all the monks were seated, there was still a pause. It was
strangely unlike the scene of a tragedy, there in that dark grave room
with the quiet faces downcast round the walls, and the hands hidden in
the cowl-sleeves. And even on the deeper plane it all seemed very
correct and legal. There was the representative of the King, a capable
learned man, with all the indications of law and order round him, and
his two secretaries to endorse or check his actions. There too was the
Community, gathered to do business in the manner prescribed by the Rule,
with the deeds of foundation before their eyes, and the great brass
convent seal on the table. There was not a hint of bullying or
compulsion; these monks were asked merely to sign a paper if they so
desired it. Each was to act for himself; there was to be no over-riding
of individual privileges, or signing away another's conscience.

Nothing could have been arranged more peaceably.

And yet to every man's mind that was present the sedate room was black
with horror. The majesty and terror of the King's will brooded in the
air; nameless dangers looked in at the high windows and into every man's
face; the quiet lawyer-like men were ministers of fearful vengeance; the
very pens, ink and paper that lay there so innocently were sacraments of
death or life.

The Prior ceased his whispering presently, glanced round to see if all
were in their places, and then stood up.

His voice was perfectly natural as he told them that this was Dr. Petre,
come down from Lord Cromwell to offer them an opportunity of showing
their trust and love towards their King by surrendering to his
discretion the buildings and property that they held. No man was to be
compelled to sign; it must be perfectly voluntary on their part; his
Grace wished to force no conscience to do that which it repudiated. For
his own part, he said, he was 