 *

"It is this," said Sir James, "we heard you were here--"

Ralph smiled with one side of his mouth, so that his father could see
it.

"I do not wish to do anything I should not," went on the old man, "or to
meddle in his Grace's matters--"

"And you wish me not to meddle either, sir," put in Ralph.

"Yes," said his father. "I am very willing to receive you and your wife
at home; to make any suitable provision; to give you half the house if
you wish for it; if you will only give up this accursed work."

He was speaking with a tranquil deliberation; all the emotion and
passion seemed to have left his voice; but Mary, from behind, could see
his right hand clenched like a vice upon the knob of his chair-arm. It
seemed to her as if the two men had suddenly frozen into
self-repression. Their air was one of two acquaintances talking, not of
father and son.

"And if not, sir?" asked Ralph with the same courtesy.

"Wait," said his father, and he lifted his hand a moment and dropped it
again. He was speaking in short, sharp sentences. "I know that you have
great things before you, and that I am asking much from you. I do not
wish you to think that I am ignorant of that. If nothing else will do I
am willing to give up the house altogether to you and your wife. I do
not know about your mother."

Mary drew her breath hard. The words were like an explosion in her soul,
and opened up unsuspected gulfs. Things must be desperate if her father
could speak like that. He had not hinted a word of this during that
silent strenuous ride they had had together when he had called for her
suddenly at Great Keynes earlier in the afternoon. She saw Ralph give a
quick stare at his father, and drop his eyes again.

"You are very generous, sir," he said almost immediately, "but I do not
ask for a bribe."

"You--you are unlike your master in that, then," said Sir James by an
irresistible impulse.

Ralph's face stiffened yet more.

"Then that is all, sir?" he asked.

"I beg your pardon for saying that," added his father courteously. "It
should not have been said. It is not a bribe, however; it is an offer to
compensate for any loss you may incur."

"Have you finished, sir?"

"That is all I have to say on that point," said Sir James, "except--"

"Well, sir?"

"Except that I do not know how Mistress Atherton will take this story."

Ralph's face grew a shade paler yet. But his lips snapped together,
though his eyes flinched.

"That is a threat, sir."

"That is as you please."

A little pulse beat sharply in Ralph's cheek. He was looking with a
kind of steady fury at his father. But Mary thought she saw indecision
too in his eye-lids, which were quivering almost imperceptibly.

"You have offered me a bribe and a threat, sir. Two insults. Have you a
third ready?"

Mary heard a swift-drawn breath from her father, but he spoke quietly.

"I have no more to say on that point," he said.

"Then I must refuse," said Ralph instantly. "I see no reason to give up
my work. I have very hearty sympathy with it."

The old man's hand twitched uncontrollably on his chair-arm for a
moment; he half lifted his hand, but he dropped it again.

"Then as to Margaret," he went on in a moment. "I understand you had
intended to dismiss her from the convent?"

Ralph bowed.

"And where do you suggest that she should go?"

"She must go home," said Ralph.

"To Overfield?"

Ralph assented.

"Then I will not receive her," said Sir James.

Mary started up.

"Nor will Mary receive her," he added, half turning towards her.

Mary Maxwell sat back at once. She thought she understood what he meant
now.

Ralph stared at his father a moment before he too understood. Then he
saw the point, and riposted deftly. He shrugged his shoulders
ostentatiously as if to shake off responsibility.

"Well, then, that is not my business; I shall give her a gown and five
shillings to-morrow, with the other one."

The extraordinary brutality of the words struck Mary like a whip, but
Sir James met it.

"That is for you to settle then," he said. "Only you need not send her
to Overfield or Great Keynes, for she will be sent back here at once."

Ralph smiled with an air of tolerant incredulity. Sir James rose
briskly.

"Come, Mary," he said, and turned his back abruptly on Ralph, "we must
find lodgings for to-night. The good nuns will not have room."

As Mary looked at his face in the candlelight she was astonished by its
decision; there was not the smallest hint of yielding. It was very pale
but absolutely determined, and for the fast time in her life she noticed
how like it was to Ralph's. The line of the lips was identical, and his
eyelids drooped now like his son's.

Ralph too rose and then on a sudden she saw the resolute obstinacy fade
from his eyes and mouth. It was as if the spirit of one man had passed
into the other.

"Father--" he said.

She expected a rush of emotion into the old man's face, but there was
not a ripple. He paused a moment, but Ralph was silent.

"I have no more to say to you, sir. And I beg that you will not come
home again."

As they passed out into the entrance passage she turned again and s