en
hung together, frightened and interested.

But Chris saw little of all this. He had no eyes for the passing
details; they were fixed on the low mound that rose fifty yards away,
and the three tall posts, placed in a triangle and united by
cross-beams, that stood on it, gaunt against the sky.

As he came nearer to it, walking as one in a dream across the dusty
ground and trampled grass, and paying no heed to the priest behind him
who whispered with an angry nervousness, he was aware of the ends of
three or four ropes that hung motionless from the beams in the still
evening air; and with his eyes fixed on these in exaltation and terror
he stumbled up the sloping ground and came beneath them.

There was a great peace round him as he stood there, stroking one of
the uprights with a kind of mechanical tenderness; the men were silent
as they saw the two monks there, and watched to see what they would do.

The towers of Tyburn-gate rose a hundred yards away, empty now, but
crowded this morning; and behind them the long road with the fields and
great mansions on this side and that, leading down to the city in front
and Westminster on the right, those two dens of the tiger that had
snarled so fiercely a few hours before, as she licked her lips red with
martyrs' blood. It was indescribably peaceful now; there was no sound
but the birds overhead, and the soft breeze in the young leaves, and the
trickle of the streams defiled to-day, but running clean and guiltless
now; and the level sunlight lay across the wide flat ground and threw
the shadow of the mound and gallows nearly to the foot of the gate.

But to Chris the place was alive with phantoms; the empty space had
vanished, and a sea of faces seemed turned up to him; he fancied that
there were figures about him, watching him too, brushing his sleeve,
faces looking into his eyes, waiting for some action or word from him.
For a moment his sense of identity was lost; the violence of the
associations, and perhaps even the power of the emotions that had been
wrought there that day, crushed out his personality; it was surely he
who was here to suffer; all else was a dream and an illusion. From his
very effort of living in eternity, a habit had been formed that now
asserted itself; the laws of time and space and circumstance for the
moment ceased to exist; and he found himself for an eternal instant
facing his own agony and death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then with a rush facts re-asserted themselves, and he started and
looked round as the monk touched him on the arm.

"You have seen it," he said in a sharp undertone, "it is enough. We
shall be attacked." Chris paid him no heed beyond a look, and turned
once more.

It was here that they had suffered, these gallant knights of God; they
had stood below these beams, their feet on the cart that was their
chariot of glory, their necks in the rope that would be their heavenly
badge; they had looked out where he was looking as they made their
little speeches, over the faces to Tyburn-gate, with the same sun that
was now behind him, shining into their eyes.

He still stroked the rough beam; and as the details came home, and he
remembered that it was this that had borne their weight, he leaned and
kissed it; and a flood of tears blinded him.

Again the priest pulled his sleeve sharply.

"For God's sake, brother!" he said.

Chris turned to him.

"The cauldron," he said; "where was that?"

The priest made an impatient movement, but pointed to one side, away
from where the men were standing still watching them; and Chris saw
below, by the side of one of the streams a great blackened patch of
ground, and a heap of ashes.

The two went down there, for the other monk was thankful to get to any
less conspicuous place; and Chris presently found himself standing on
the edge of the black patch, with the trampled mud and grass beyond it
beside the stream. The grey wood ashes had drifted by now far across the
ground, but the heavy logs still lay there, charred and smoked, that had
blazed beneath the cauldron where the limbs of the monks had been
seethed; and he stared down at them, numbed and fascinated by the
horror of the thought. His mind, now in a violent reaction, seemed
unable to cope with its own knowledge, crushed beneath its weight; and
his friend heard him repeating with a low monotonous insistence--

"Here it was," he said, "here; here was the cauldron; it was here."

Then he turned and looked into his friend's eyes.

"It was here," he said; "are you sure it was here?"

The other made an impatient sound.

"Where else?" he said sharply. "Come, brother, you have seen enough."

       *       *       *       *       *

He told him more details as they walked home; as to what each had said,
and how each had borne himself. Father Reynolds, the Syon monk, had
looked gaily about him, it seemed, as he walked up from the hurdle; the
secular priest had turned pale and shut his eyes more than once; the
three Carthusian priors had been unmoved throughout, showing neither
carelessness nor fear; Prior Houghton's arm had been taken off to the
