rliament being called at York.

Then again disturbances had broken out.

"I was at Hull," said the monk, "with Sir Francis Bygod in January; but
we did nothing, and only lost our leader, and all the while Norfolk was
creeping up with his army. It was piteous to think what might not have
been done if we had not trusted his Grace; but 'twas no good, and I was
back again in the dales here and there, hiding for my life by April.
Everywhere 'twas the same; the monks were haled out again from their
houses, and men were hanged by the score. I cut down four myself near
Meux, and gave them Christian burial at night. One was a monk, and
hanged in his habit. But the worst of all was at York."

The man's face twitched with emotion, and he passed his hand over his
mouth once or twice before continuing.

"I did not dare to go into the court for fear I should be known; but I
stood outside in the crowd and watched them go in. There was a fellow
riding with Norfolk--a false knave of a man whom we had all learnt to
hate at Doncaster--for he was always jeering at us secretly and making
mischief when he could. I saw him with the duke before, when we went
into the Whitefriars for the pardon; and he stood there behind with the
look of a devil on his face; and now here he was again--"

"His name, sir?" put in Dom Adrian.

"Torridon, father, Torridon! He was a--"

There was a sharp movement in the room, so that the monk stopped and
looked round him amazed. Chris felt the blood ebb from his heart and din
in his ears, and he swayed a little as he leaned against the wall. He
saw Dom Anthony lean forward and whisper to the stranger; and through
the haze that was before his eyes saw the other look at him sharply,
with a fallen jaw.

Then the monk rose and made a little stiff inclination to Chris,
deferential and courteous, but with a kind of determined dignity in it
too.

When Chris had recovered himself, the monk was deep in his story, but
Ralph had fallen out of it.

"You would not believe it," he was saying, "but on the very jury that
was to try Master Aske and Constable, there were empanelled their own
blood-relations; and that by the express intention of Norfolk. John Aske
was one of them, and some others who had to wives the sons of my Lord
Darcy and Sir Robert Constable. You see how it would be. If the
prisoners were found guilty, men would say that it must be so, for that
their own kin had condemned them; and if they were to be acquitted, then
these men themselves would be cast."

There again broke out a murmur from the listening faces, as the man
paused.

"Well, they were cast, as you know, for not taking the King to be the
supreme head of the Church, and for endeavouring to force the King to
hold a parliament that he willed not. And I was at York again when
Master Aske was brought back from London to be hanged, and I saw it!"

Again an uncontrollable emotion shook him; and he propped his face on
his hand as he ended his tale.

"There were many of his friends there in the crowd, and scarcely one
dared to cry out, God save you, sir.... I dared not...."

He gave one rending sob, and Chris felt his eyes prick with tears at the
sight of so much sorrow. It was piteous to see a brave man thinking
himself a coward.

Dom Anthony leaned forward.

"Thank you, father," he said, though his voice was a little husky, "and
thank God that he died well. You have touched all our hearts."

"I was a hound," sobbed the man, "a hound, that I did not cry out to him
and tell him that I loved him."

"No, no, father," said the other tenderly, "you must not think so. You
must serve God well now, and pray for his soul."

The bell sounded out for Compline as he spoke, and the monks rose.

"You will come into choir, father," said the Sub-Prior.

The man nodded, stood up, and followed him out.

Chris was in a strange ferment as he stood in his stall that night. It
had been sad enough to hear of that gallant attempt to win back the old
liberties and the old Faith--that attempt that had been a success except
for the insurgents' trust in their King--and of the death of the
leaders.

But across the misery had pierced a more poignant grief, as he had
learnt how Ralph's hand was in this too and had taken once more the
wrong side in God's quarrel. But still he had no resentment; the
conflict had passed out of the personal plane into an higher, and he
thought of his brother as God's enemy rather than his own. Would his
prayers then never prevail--the prayers that he speeded up in the smoke
of the great Sacrifice morning by morning for that zealous mistaken
soul? Or was it perhaps that that brother of his must go deeper yet,
before coming out to knowledge and pardon?




CHAPTER IV

THE DESTRUCTION OF THE SEAL


The autumn drew in swiftly. The wet south-west wind blew over the downs
that lay between Lewes and the sea, and beat down the loose browning
leaves of the trees about the Priory. The grass in the cloister-garth
grew rank and dark with the constant rain that drove and dropped over
the high roofs.

And meanwhile the tidings grew heavier still.

After Michaelmas the King set to 