atters here, lease out the estate,
and Mr. Carleton and I shall betake ourselves there. Unless"--he
said--"unless Ralph should come to another mind."

       *       *       *       *       *

As the spring and early summer drew on, the news, as has been seen, was
not reassuring.

In spite of the Six Articles of the previous year by which all vows of
chastity were declared binding before God, there was no hint of making
it possible for the thousands of Religious in England still compelled by
them to return to the Life in which such vows were tolerable. The
Religious were indeed dispensed from obedience and poverty by the civil
authority; it was possible for them to buy, inherit, and occupy
property; but a recognition of their corporate life was as far as ever
away. It was becoming plainer every day that those who wished to pursue
their vocation must do so in voluntary exile; and letters were already
being exchanged between the brother and sister at home and the
representatives of their respective communities on the Continent.

Then suddenly on the eleventh of June there arrived the news of
Cromwell's fall and of all that it involved to Ralph.

They were at dinner when it came.

There was a door suddenly thrust open at the lower end of the hall; and
a courier, white with dust and stiff with riding, limped up the matting
and delivered Beatrice's letter. It was very short.

"Come," she had written. "My Lord of Essex is arrested. He is in the
Tower. Mr. Ralph, too, is there for refusing to inform against him. He
has behaved gallantly."

There followed a line from Mistress Jane Atherton, her aunt, offering
rooms in her own house.

       *       *       *       *       *

A wild confusion fell upon the household. Men ran to and fro, women
whispered and sobbed in corners under shadow of the King's displeasure
that lay on the house, the road between the terrace and the stable
buzzed with messengers, ordering and counter-ordering, for it was not
certain at first that Margaret would not go. A mounted groom dashed up
for instructions and was met by Sir James in his riding-cloak on the
terrace who bade him ride to Great Keynes with the news, and entreat Sir
Nicholas Maxwell to come up to London and his wife to Overfield; there
was not time to write. Sir James's own room was in confusion; his
clothes lay tumbled on the ground and a distraught servant tossed them
this way and that; Chris was changing his habit upstairs, for it would
mean disaster to go to town as a monk. Margaret was on her knees in
chapel, silent and self-controlled, but staring piteously at the
compassionate figure of the great Mother who looked down on her with Her
Son in Her arms. The huge dog under the chapel-cloister lifted his head
and bayed in answer, as frantic figures fled across the court before
him. And over all lay the hot June sky, and round about the deep
peaceful woods.

A start was made at three o'clock.

Sir James was already in his saddle, as Chris ran out; an unfamiliar
figure in his plain priest's cloak and cap and great riding boots
beneath. A couple of grooms waited behind, and another held the monk's
horse. Margaret was on the steps, white and steadied by prayer; and the
chaplain stood behind with a strong look in his eyes as they met those
of his patron.

"Take care of her, father; take care of her. Her sister will be here
to-night, please God. Oh! God bless you, my dear! Pray for us all. Jesu
keep us all! Chris, are you mounted?"

Then they were off; and the white dust rose in clouds about them.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was between eight and nine as they rode up the north bank of the
river from London Bridge to Charing.

It had been a terrible ride, with but few words between the two, and
long silences that were the worst of all; as, blotting out the rich
country and the deep woods and the meadows and heathery hills on either
side of the road through Surrey, visions moved and burned before them,
such as the King's vengeance had made possible to the imagination. From
far away across the Southwark fields Chris had seen the huddled
buildings of the City, the princely spire that marked them, and had
heard the sweet jangling of the thousand bells that told the Angelus;
but he had thought of little but of that high gateway under which they
must soon pass, where the pikes against the sky made palpable the
horrors of his thought. He had given one swift glance up as he went
beneath; and then his heart sickened as they went on, past the houses
and St. Thomas's chapel with gleams of the river seen beneath. Then as
he looked his breath came sharp; far down there eastwards, seen for a
moment, rose up the sombre towers where Ralph lay, and the saints had
suffered.

The old Religious Houses, stretching in a splendid line upwards, from
the Augustinian priory near the river-bank, along the stream that flowed
down from Ludgate, caught the last rays of sunlight high against the
rich sky as the riders went along towards Charing between the
sedge-brinked tide and the slope of grass on their right; and the monk's
sorrowful heart was overlaid agai