 It seemed as if their essential souls had been laid
bare by a catastrophe, and that she had never known them before.

For herself, she felt helpless and dazed; her own independence seemed
gone, and she was aware that her soul was leaning on those of the two
who walked beside her, and who were masculine and capable beyond all her
previous knowledge of them.

Behind she heard a murmur of voices and footsteps of three or four
villagers who followed to see what would happen.

She had no idea of what her father meant to do; it was incredible that
he should leave Margaret in the road with her gown and five shillings;
but it was yet more incredible that all his threats should be idle. Only
one thing emerged clearly, that he had thrown a heavier responsibility
upon Ralph than the latter had foreseen. Perhaps the rest must indeed be
left to God. She did not even know what he meant to do now, whether to
make one last effort with Ralph, or to leave him to himself; and she had
not dared to ask.

They passed straight down together in silence to the convent-gate; and
were admitted immediately by the portress whose face was convulsed and
swollen.

"They are to go," she sobbed.

Sir James made a gesture, and passed in to the tiny lodge on the left
where the portress usually sat; Chris and Mary followed him in, and Mr.
Morris went across to the guest-house.

The bell sounded out overhead for mass as they sat there in the dim
morning light, twenty or thirty strokes, and ceased; but there was no
movement from the little door of the guest-house across the court. The
portress had disappeared through the second door that led from the tiny
room in which they sat, into the precincts of the convent itself.

Mary looked distractedly round her; at the little hatch that gave on to
the entrance gate, and the chain hanging by it that communicated with
one of the bolts, at the little crucifix that hung beside it, the
devotional book that lay on the shelf, the door into the convent with
the title "_Clausura_" inscribed above it. She glanced at her father and
brother.

Sir James was sitting with his grey head in his hands, motionless and
soundless; Chris was standing upright and rigid, staring steadily out
through the window into the court.

Then through the window she too saw Mr. Morris come out from the
guest-house and pass along to the stable.

Again there was silence.

The minutes went by, and the Saunce bell sounded three strokes from the
turret. Chris sank on to his knees, and a moment later Mary and her
father followed his example, and so the three remained in the dark
silent lodge, with no sound but their breathing, and once a sharp
whispered word of prayer from the old man.

As the sacring bell sounded there was a sudden noise in the court, and
Mary lifted her head.

From where she knelt she could see the two doors across the court, those
of the guest-house and the stable beyond, and simultaneously, out of the
one came Ralph, gloved and booted, with his cap on his head, and Mr.
Morris leading his horse out of the other.

The servant lifted his cap at the sound of the bell, and dropped on to
his knees, still holding the bridle; his master stood as he was, and
looked at him. Mary could only see the latter's profile, but even that
was scornful and hard.

Again the bell sounded; the mystery was done; and the servant stood up.

As her father and Chris rose, Mary rose with them; and the three
remained in complete silence, watching the little scene in the court.

Ralph made a sign; and the servant attached the bridle of the horse to a
ring beside the stable-door, and went past his master into the
guest-house with a deferential stoop of the shoulders. Ralph stood a
moment longer, and then followed him in.

Then again the minutes went by.

There was a sound of horse-hoofs on the road presently, and of talking
that grew louder. The hoofs ceased; there was a sharp peal on the bell;
and the talking began again.

Chris glanced across at his father; but the old man shook his head; and
the three remained as they were, watching and listening. As the bell
rang out again impatiently, the door behind opened, and the portress
came swiftly through, followed by the Abbess.

"Come quickly," the old lady whispered. "Sister Susan is going to let
them in."

She stood aside, and made a motion to them to come through, and a moment
late the four were in the convent, and the door was shut behind them.

"They are Mr. Torridon's men," whispered the Abbess, her eyes round with
excitement; "they are come to pack the things."

She led them on through the narrow passage, up a stone flight of stairs
to the corridor that ran over the little cloister, and pushed open the
door of a cell.

"Wait here," she said. "You can do no more. I will go down to them. You
are in the enclosure, but I cannot help it."

And she had whisked out again, with an air of extraordinary composure,
shutting the door behind her.

The three went across to the window, still speaking no word, and looked
down.

The tiny court seemed half full of people now. There were three horses
there, besides Ralph's own marked b