his men and hounds, and the rest of the year he seemed to spend
in talking about the sport, fingering and oiling his weapons through
long mornings, and elaborating future campaigns, in which the quarries'
chances should be reduced to a minimum.

       *       *       *       *       *

On a sudden Sir Nicholas's figure stiffened and then relaxed. A doe had
stepped out noiselessly from the cover, head up and feet close together,
sniffing up wind--and they were shooting no does this month. Then again
she moved along against the thick undergrowth, stepping delicately and
silently, and vanished without a sound a hundred yards along to the
left.

The cries and taps were sounding nearer now, and at any moment the game
might appear. Sir Nicholas shifted his position again a little, and
simultaneously the scolding voice of a blackbird rang out in front, and
he stopped again. At the same moment a hare, mad with fright, burst out
of the cover, making straight for the shelter. Sir Nicholas' hands rose,
steady now the crisis had come; and Ralph leaning forward touched him on
the shoulder and pointed.

A great stag was standing in the green gloom within the wood eighty
yards away, with a couple of does at his flank. Then as a shout sounded
out near at hand, he bolted towards the shelter in a line that would
bring him close to it. Ralph crouched down, for he had left his bow with
his man an hour earlier, and one of the hounds gave a stifled yelp as
Nicholas straightened himself and threw out his left foot. Either the
sound or the movement startled the great brown beast in front, and as
the arrow twanged from the string he checked and wheeled round, and went
off like the wind, untouched. A furious hiss of the breath broke from
Nicholas, and he made a swift sign as he turned to his horse; and in a
moment the two lithe hounds had leapt from the shelter and were flying
in long noiseless leaps after the disappearing quarry; the does,
confused by the change of direction, had whisked back into cover. A
moment later Nicholas too was after the hounds, his shoulders working
and his head thrust forward, and a stirrup clashed and jingled against
the saddle.

Ralph sat down on the ground smiling. It gave him a certain pleasure to
see such a complete discomfiture; Nicholas was always so amusingly angry
when he failed, and so full of reasons.

The forest was full of noises now; a crowd of starlings were protesting
wildly overhead, there were shouts far away and the throb of hoofs, and
the ground game was pouring out of the undergrowth and dispersing in
all directions. Once a boar ran past, grumbling as he went, turning a
wicked and resentful eye on the placid gentleman in green who sat on the
ground, but who felt for his long dirk as he saw the fury on the brute's
face and the foam on the tusks. But the pig thought discretion was best,
and hurried on complaining. More than one troop of deer flew past, the
does gathered round their lord to protect him, all swerving together
like a string of geese as they turned the corner of the shelter and
caught sight of Ralph; but the beaters were coming out now, whistling
and talking as they came, and gathering into groups of two or three on
the ground, for the work was done, and it had been hot going.

Mary Maxwell appeared presently on her grey horse, looking slender and
dignified in her green riding-suit with the great plume shading her
face, and rode up to Ralph whom she had seen earlier in the afternoon.

"My husband?" she enquired looking down at Ralph who was lying with his
hat over his eyes.

"He left me just now," said her brother, "very hot and red, after a stag
which he missed. That will mean some conversation to-night, Minnie."

She smiled down at him.

"I shall agree with him, you know," she said.

"Of course you will; it is but right. And I suppose I shall too."

"Will you wait for him? Tell him we are going home by the mill. It is
all over now."

Ralph nodded, and Mary moved off down the glade to join the others.

Ralph began to wonder how Nicholas would take the news of Chris'
decision. Mary, he knew very well, would assent to it quietly as she
did to all normal events, even though they were not what she would have
wished; and probably her husband would assent too, for he had a great
respect for a churchman. For himself his opinions were divided and he
scarcely knew what he thought. From the temporal point of view Chris'
step would be an advantage to him, for the vow of poverty would put an
end to any claims upon the estate on the part of the younger son; but
Ralph was sufficiently generous not to pay much attention to this. From
the social point of view, no great difference would be made; it was as
respectable to have a monk for a brother as a small squire, and Chris
could never be more than this unless he made a good marriage. From the
spiritual point of view--and here Ralph stopped and wondered whether it
was very seriously worth considering. It was the normal thing of course
to believe in the sublimity of the religious life and its peculiar
dignity; but the new learning was beginning to put quest