o the house, he saw that the mob filled the tiny street, and
the cobbled space, from side to side. They were chiefly of the idling
class, folks who had little to do but to follow up excitements and
shout; and there were a good many cries raised for the King's Grace and
his Visitors, for such people as these were greedy for any movement that
might bring them gain, and the Religious Houses were beginning to be
more unpopular in town than ever.

One of the bundles slipped as it was shifted, the cord came off, and in
a moment the little space beyond the mule before the door was covered
with gleaming stuff and jewels.

There was a fierce scuffle and a cry, and Ralph was in a moment beyond
the mule with his sword out. He said nothing but stood there fierce and
alert as the crowd sucked back, and the servant gathered up the things.
There was no more trouble, for it had only been a spasmodic snatch at
the wealth, and a cheer or two was raised again among the grimy faces
that stared at the fine gentleman and the shining treasure.

Ralph thought it better, however, to say a conciliatory word when the
things had been bestowed in the house, and the mules led away; and he
stood on the steps a moment alone before entering himself.

The crowd listened complacently enough to the statements which they had
begun to believe from the fact of the incessant dinning of them into
their ears by the selected preachers at Paul's Cross and elsewhere; and
there was loud groan at the Pope's name.

Ralph was ending with an incise peroration that he had delivered more
than once before.

"You know all this, good people; and you shall know it better when the
work is done. Instead of the rich friars and monks we will have godly
citizens, each with his house and land. The King's Grace has promised
it, and you know that he keeps his word. We have had enough of the
jackdaws and their stolen goods; we will have honest birds instead. Only
be patient a little longer--"

The listening silence was broken by a loud cry--

"You damned plundering hound--"

A stone suddenly out of the gloom whizzed past Ralph and crashed through
the window behind. A great roaring rose in a moment, and the crowd
swayed and turned.

Ralph felt his heart suddenly quicken, and his hand flew to his hilt
again, but there was no need for him to act. There were terrible screams
already rising from the seething twilight in front, as the stone-thrower
was seized and trampled. He stayed a moment longer, dropped his hilt and
went into the house.




CHAPTER IX

RALPH'S WELCOME


"You will show Mistress Atherton into the room below," said Ralph to his
man, "as soon as she comes."

He was sitting on the morning following his arrival in his own chamber
upstairs. His table was a mass of papers, account-books, reckonings,
reports bearing on his Visitation journey, and he had been working at
them ever since he was dressed; for he had to present himself before
Cromwell in the course of a day or two, and the labour would be
enormous.

The room below, opposite that in which he intended to see Beatrice and
where she had waited herself a few months before while he talked with
Cromwell and the Archbishop, was now occupied by his collection of plate
and vestments, and the key was in his own pocket.

He had heard from his housekeeper on the previous evening that Beatrice
had called at the house during the afternoon, and had seemed surprised
to hear that he was to return that night; but she had said very little,
it appeared, and had only begged the woman to inform her master that she
would present herself at his house the next morning.

And now Ralph was waiting for her.

He was more ill-at-ease than he had expected to be. The events of the
evening before had given him a curious shock; and he cursed the whole
business--the snapping of the cord round the bundle, his own action and
words, the outrage that followed, and the death of the fellow that had
thrown the stone--for the body had been rescued by the watch a few
minutes later, a tattered crushed thing, beaten out of all likeness to a
man. One of the watch had stepped in to see Ralph as he sat at supper,
and had gone again saying the dog deserved it for daring to lift his
voice against the King and his will.

But above all Ralph repented of his own words. There was no harm in
saying such things in the country; but it was foolish and rash to do so
in town. Cromwell's men should be silent and discreet, he knew, not
street-orators; and if he had had time to think he would not have
spoken. However the crowd was with him; there was plainly no one of any
importance there; it was unlikely that Cromwell himself would hear of
the incident; and perhaps after all no harm was done.

Meanwhile there was Beatrice to reckon with, and Ralph laid down his pen
a dozen times that morning and rehearsed once more what he would have to
say to her.

He was shrewd enough to know that it was his personality and not his
virtues or his views that had laid hold of this girl's soul. As it was
with him, so it was with her; each was far enough apart from the other
in all external matters; suc