e stood now for the first time in his life within those terrible
walls; he had seen the low Traitor's Gate on his way that was for so
many the gate of death. Even now as he gripped the stone he could see
out to the left through the narrow slit a streak of open land beyond the
moat and the wall, and somewhere there he knew lay the little rising
ground, that reddened week after week in an ooze of blood and slime. And
now he was at the door of one who without doubt would die there soon for
the Faith that they both professed.

The Prior turned sharply round.

"You!" he said, "I had forgotten: you must wait here till I call you
in."

There was a sounding of an opening door above; the Prior went up and
forward, leaving him standing there; the door closed, but not before
Chris had caught a glimpse of a vaulted roof; and then the warder stood
by him again, waiting with his keys in his hand.




CHAPTER XIII

PRISONER AND PRINCE


The sun sank lower and had begun to throw long shadows before the door
opened again and the Prior beckoned. As Chris had stood there staring
out of the window at the green water of the moat and the shadowed wall
beyond, with the warder standing a few steps below, now sighing at the
delay, now humming a line or two, he had heard voices now and again from
the room above, but it had been no more than a murmur that died once
more into silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris was aware of a dusty room as he stepped over the threshold, bare
walls, one or two solid pieces of furniture, and of the Prior's figure
very upright in the light from the tiny window at one side; and then he
forgot everything as he looked at the man that was standing smiling by
the table.

It was a very tall slender figure, dressed in a ragged black gown
turning green with age; a little bent now, but still dignified; the face
was incredibly lean, with great brown eyes surrounded by wrinkles, and a
little white hair, ragged, too, and long, hung down under the old
flapped cap. The hand that Chris kissed seemed a bundle of reeds bound
with parchment, and above the wrist bones the arm grew thinner still
under the loose, torn sleeve.

Then the monk stood up and saw those kindly proud eyes looking into his
own.

The Prior made a deferential movement and said a word or two, and the
bishop answered him.

"Yes, yes, my Lord Prior; I understand--God bless you, my son."

The bishop moved across to the chair, and sat down, panting a little,
for he was torn by sickness and deprivation, and laid his long hands
together.

"Sit down, brother," he said, "and you too, my Lord Prior."

Chris saw the Prior move across to an old broken stool, but he himself
remained standing, awed and almost terrified at that worn face in which
the eyes alone seemed living; so thin that the cheekbones stood out
hideously, and the line of the square jaw. But the voice was wonderfully
sweet and penetrating.

"My Lord Prior and I have been talking of the times, and what is best to
be done, and how we must all be faithful. You will be faithful,
brother?"

Chris made an effort against the absorbing fascination of that face and
voice.

"I will, my lord."

"That is good; you must follow your prior and be obedient to him. You
will find him wise and courageous."

The bishop nodded gently towards the Prior, and Chris heard a sobbing
indrawn breath from the corner where the broken stool stood.

"It is a time of great moment," went on the bishop; "much hangs on how
we carry ourselves. His Grace has evil counsellors about him."

There was silence for a moment or two; Chris could not take his eyes
from the bishop's face. The frightful framework of skin and bones seemed
luminous from within, and there was an extraordinary sweetness on those
tightly drawn lips, and in the large bright eyes.

"His Grace has been to the Tower lately, I hear, and once to the
Marshalsea, to see Dom Sebastian Newdegate, who, as you know, was at
Court for many years till he entered the Charterhouse; but I have had no
visit from him, nor yet, I should think, Master More--you must not judge
his Grace too hardly, my son; he was a good lad, as I knew very well--a
very gallant and brave lad. A Frenchman said that he seemed to have come
down from heaven. And he has always had a great faith and devotion, and
a very strange and delicate conscience that has cost him much pain. But
he has been counselled evilly."

Chris remembered as in a dream that the bishop had been the King's tutor
years before.

"He is a good theologian too," went on the bishop, "and that is his
misfortune now, though I never thought to say such a thing. Perhaps he
will become a better one still, if God has mercy on him, and he will
come back to his first faith. But we must be good Catholics ourselves,
and be ready to die for our Religion, before we can teach him."

Again, after another silence, he went on.

"You are to be a priest, I hear, my son, and to take Christ's yoke more
closely upon you. It is no easy one in these days, though love will make
it so, as Himself said. I suppose it will be soon now?"

"We are to get a dispensation, 