n with sorrow as he looked at them,
empty now and desolate where once the praises of God had sounded day and
night.

They stopped beneath the swinging sign of an inn, with Westminister
towers blue and magical before them, to ask for Mistress Atherton's
house, and were directed a little further along and nearer to the
water's edge.

It was a little old house when they came to it, built on a tiny private
embankment that jutted out over the flats of the river-bank; of plaster
and timber with overhanging storeys and windows beneath the roof. It
stood by itself, east of the village, and almost before the jangle of
the bell had died away, Beatrice herself was at the door, in her
house-dress, bare-headed; with a face at once radiant and constrained.

She took them upstairs immediately, after directing the men to take the
horses, when they had unloaded the luggage, back to the inn where they
had enquired the way: for there was no stable, she said, attached to the
house.

Chris came behind his father as if in a dream through the dark little
hall and up the two flights on to the first landing. Beatrice stopped at
a door.

"You can say what you will," she said, "before my aunt. She is of our
mind in these matters."

Then they were in the room; a couple of candles burned on a table before
the curtained window; and an old lady with a wrinkled kindly face
hobbled over from her chair and greeted the two travellers.

"I welcome you, gentlemen," she said, "if a sore heart may say so to
sore hearts."

There was no news of Nicholas, they were told; he had not been heard of.

       *       *       *       *       *

They heard the story so far as Beatrice knew it; but it was softened for
their ears. She had found Ralph, she said, hesitating what to do. He had
been plainly bewildered by the sudden news; they had talked a while; and
then he had handed her the papers to burn. The magistrate sent by the
Council had arrived to find the ashes still smoking. He had questioned
Ralph sharply, for he had come with authority behind him; and Ralph had
refused to speak beyond telling him that the bundles lying on the floor
were all the papers of my Lord Essex that were in his possession. They
had laid hands on these, and then searched the room. A quantity of
ashes, Beatrice said, had fallen from behind a portrait over the hearth
when they had shifted it. Then the magistrate had questioned her too,
enquired where she lived, and let her go. She had waited at the corner
of the street, and watched the men come out. Ralph walked in the centre
as a prisoner. She had followed them to the river; had mixed with the
crowd that gathered there; and had heard the order given to the
wherryman to pull to the Tower. That was all that she knew.

"Thank God for your son, sir. He bore himself gallantly."

There was a silence as she ended. The old man looked at her wondering
and dazed. It was so sad, that the news scarcely yet conveyed its
message.

"And my Lord Essex?" he said.

"My Lord is in the Tower too. He was arrested at the Council by the Duke
of Norfolk."

The old lady intervened then, and insisted on their going down to
supper. It would be ready by now, she said, in the parlour downstairs.

They supped, themselves silent, with Beatrice leaning her arms on the
table, and talking to them in a low voice, telling them all that was
said. She did not attempt to prophesy smoothly. The feeling against
Cromwell, she said, passed all belief. The streets had been filled with
a roaring crowd last night. She had heard them bellowing till long after
dark. The bells were pealed in the City churches hour after hour, in
triumph over the minister's fall.

"The dogs!" she said fiercely. "I never thought to say it, but my heart
goes out to him."

Her spirit was infections. Chris felt a kind of half-joyful recklessness
tingle in his veins, as he listened to her talk, and watched her black
eyes hot with indignation and firm with purpose. What if Ralph were
cast? At least it was for faithfulness--of a kind. Even the father's
face grew steadier; that piteous trembling of the lower lip ceased, and
the horror left his eyes. It was hard to remain in panic with that girl
beside them.

They had scarcely done supper when the bell of the outer door rang
again, and a moment later Nicholas was with them, flushed with hard
riding. He strode into the room, blinking at the lights, and tossed his
riding whip on to the table.

"I have been to the Lieutenant of the Tower," he said; "I know him of
old. He promises nothing. He tells me that Ralph is well-lodged. Mary is
gone to Overfield. God damn the King!"

He had no more news to give. He had sent off his wife at once on
receiving the tidings, and had started half an hour later for London. He
had been ahead of them all the way, it seemed; but had spent a couple of
hours first in trying to get admittance to the Tower, and then in
interviewing the Lieutenant; but there was no satisfaction to be gained
there. The utmost he had wrung from him was a promise that he would see
him again, and hear what he had to say.

Then Nicholas had to sup and hear the whole 