had looked into his own a few months ago with such passionate
anger, he remembered all that was between them, dropped the hands and
went forward to the fire.

His father followed him and stood by him there as he spread his fingers
to the blaze, and told him the details, in short detached sentences.

She had been seized with pain and vomiting on the previous night at
supper time; the doctor had been sent for, and had declared the illness
to be an internal inflammation. She had grown steadily worse on the
following day, with periods of unconsciousness; she had asked for Ralph
an hour after she had been taken ill; the pain had seemed to become
fiercer as the hours went on; she had died at ten o'clock that night.

Ralph stood there and listened, his head pressed against the high
mantelpiece, and his fingers stretching and closing mechanically to
supple the stiffened joints.

"Mistress Atherton was with her all the while," said his father; "she
asked for her."

Ralph shot a glance sideways, and down again.

"And--" he began.

"Yes; she was shriven and anointed, thank God; she could not receive
Viaticum."

Ralph did not know whether he was glad or sorry at that news. It was a
proper proceeding at any rate; as proper as the candles and the shroud
and the funeral rites. As regards grief, he did not feel it yet; but he
was aware of a profound sensation in his soul, as of a bruise.

There was silence for a moment or two; then the wind bellowed suddenly
in the chimney, the tall window gave a crack of sound, and the smoke
eddied out into the room. Ralph turned round.

"They are with her still," said Sir James; "we can go up presently."

The other shook his head abruptly.

"No," he said, "I will wait until to-morrow. Which is my room?"

"Your old room," said his father. "I have had a truckle-bed set there
for your man. Will you find your way? I must stay here for Mistress
Atherton."

Ralph nodded sharply, and went out, down the hill.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was half an hour more before Beatrice appeared; and then Sir James
looked up from his chair at the sound of a footstep and saw her coming
up the matted floor. Her face was steady and resolute, but there were
dark patches under her eyes, for she had not slept for two nights.

Sir James stood up, and held out his hands.

"Ralph has come," he said. "He is gone to his room. Where are the
others?"

"The priests are at prayers and Meg too," she said, "It is all ready,
sir. You may go up when you please."

"I must say a word first," said Sir James. "Sit down, Mistress
Atherton."

He drew forward his chair for her; and himself stood up on the hearth,
leaning his head on his hand and looking down into the fire.

"It is this," he said: "May our Lord reward you for what you have done
for us."

Beatrice was silent.

"You know she asked my pardon," he said, "when we were left alone
together. You do not know what that means. And she gave me her
forgiveness for all my folly--"

Beatrice drew a sharp breath in spite of herself.

"We have both sinned," he went on; "we did not understand one another;
and I feared we should part so. That we have not, we have to thank
you--"

His old voice broke suddenly; and Beatrice heard him draw a long sobbing
breath. She knew she ought to speak, but her brain was bewildered with
the want of sleep and the long struggle; she could not think of a word
to say; she felt herself on the verge of hysteria.

"You have done it all," he said again presently. "She took all that Mr.
Carleton said patiently enough, he told me. It is all your work.
Mistress Atherton--"

She looked up questioningly with her bright tired eyes.

"Mistress Atherton; may I know what you said to her?"

Beatrice made a great effort and recovered her self-control.

"I answered her questions," she said.

"Questions? Did she ask you of the Faith? Did she speak of me? Am I
asking too much?"

Beatrice shook her head. For a moment again she could not speak.

"I am asking what I should not," said the old man.

"No, no," cried the girl, "you have a right to know. Wait, I will tell
you--"

Again she broke off, and felt her own breath begin to sob in her throat.
She buried her face in her hands a moment.

"God forgive me," said the other. "I--"

"It was about your son Ralph," said Beatrice bravely, though her lips
shook.

"She--she asked whether I had ever loved him at all--and--"

"Mistress Beatrice, Mistress Beatrice, I entreat you not to say more."

"And I told her--yes; and, yes--still."




CHAPTER V

THE MUMMERS


It was a strange meeting for Beatrice and Ralph the next morning. She
saw him first from the gallery in chapel at mass, kneeling by his
father, motionless and upright, and watched him go down the aisle when
it was over. She waited a few minutes longer, quieting herself,
marshalling her forces, running her attention over each movement or word
that might prove unruly in his presence; and then she got up from her
knees and went down.

It had been an intolerable pain to tell the dying woman that she loved
her son; it tore open the wound again, for she had never yet spoken that
sec