m, in the blaze of sunlight, stood the
throne that for a thousand years had faced the throne of the
Fisherman, now as a dependant, now as a rebel--stable and fixed
at last in its allegiance. Here beneath him lay London, the
finest city in the world, where, if ever anywhere, had been tried
the experiment of a religion resting on the strength of a
national isolation instead of an universal supernationalism;--it
had been tried, and found wanting. Beneath him lay his own
cathedral, already blazing within like a treasure-cave, ready for
its consummation, without, tranquil and strong; behind him the
ancient Abbey once again in the hands of its children; far away
to the right, seeming strangely near in this lucid atmosphere,
hung, like a bubble, the great dome below which, as he knew,
stood the first basilican altar in London, newly consecrated as a
sign of its papal dignities and privileges. And beyond that again
London; and yet again London, a wonderful white city, gleaming at
a thousand points with cross and spire and dome and pinnacle,
patched with green in square and park and open space--London come
back again at last to her ancient faith and her old prosperity.

But this was not all.

For he knew and his imagination circled out wider and wider that
he might take it in--he knew that Europe itself at last dwelt
again with one mind in her house. There beyond the
channel--across which ten minutes ago, as the thunder of guns had
told him, the Arbiter of the World had come at last with his
train of kings behind him--there lay the huge continent, the
great plains of France, the forests of Germany, the giant tumbled
debris of Switzerland, the warm and radiant coasts, the ancient
world-stage of Italy, passionate Spain which never yet had wholly
lost her love. There all lay, at one at last, each her own, with
her own liberties and customs and traditions, yet each in the
service of her neighbour, since each and all alike lay beneath
the Peace of God.

Still wider fled his thought. . . . He saw to the southwards and
far away westwards across the seas, how now this country, now
that, flew its flag and administered its laws, yet how those
flags all together saluted the Crossed Keys; how those laws,
however diverse, bowed all together before the Law of Liberty;
and how there, farther yet, already the gates of the East had
rolled back, and how there peered out across half the world the
patient seeking faces of those old children of earth, awakened at
last to destinies greater than their own--awakened, not as men
had once feared, by the thunder of Christian guns, but by the
call of the Shepherd to sheep that were not of His Fold. . . .

So there the vision lay before him--this man who had lost his
memory and had found a greater gift instead.

   *   *   *   *   *

An old priest in the white fur of a canon came gently up the deck
from behind. . . .

"Your Eminence . . ." he said, "they have signalled up the
line. . . . I thought, perhaps----"

The new Cardinal started as one from a dream.

"What is it, Father Jervis? . . ."

The old man looked at him closely; then he laid his hand on his arm.

"Your Eminence, the King is waiting. Do you not remember? Your
Eminence was to give the signal."

Beneath, like huge voices speaking a single word all at once,
roared the old guns from the Tower and Greenwich and the palaces.

The Cardinal shook his head.

"I . . . I forget," he said; "I was thinking. . . . What am I to do?"

The old priest looked at him again earnestly, without speaking.
Then he leaned forward closer still.

"Will your Eminence authorize me to give the signals?"

"Yes, yes, Father . . . anything. What am I to do? Have I
to say anything?"

His eyes had a look of dawning terror in them as he glanced from
side to side. The priest once again laid his hand on the
lace-covered wrist and held it there steadily.

"Nothing at all, your Eminence. You have simply to sit still. I
will arrange everything."

Still standing there, he turned slightly and made a sharp gesture
behind the throne with his left hand. A bell sounded instantly.
There was a moment's silence. Then once again a bell; and a
chorus answered it.

Very slowly the Cardinal lifted his head, and saw before him the
Royal barge sway ever so slightly, conscious himself that through
his own vessel a vibration was beginning to run as the huge
engines beneath moved into action. Again roared the guns far down
the river, and, as the bellow ceased, from a thousand steeples
broke out the clamour of brazen tongues. . . .

He sat still; he knew at least that this he must do. . . . Surely
this obscurity of brain would pass again in a moment. He was
going to meet the Holy Father, was he not? . . . down there, down
that road of light and air, along which now his great barge
floated side by side with the King's. That was it. He remembered
again now as his memory flickered in glimpses. This was the great
Progress round the world of the new Arbiter of the World, the
Vicar of the Prince of Peace, come into his Kingdom at last.

He kept his eyes steadily before him, scarcely seeing the flash
of the river 