ntences, with pauses between, in which he
appeared to summon his resolution to speak again, and force out his
tale. There was plainly more behind too; and his ill-ease seemed to
deepen on him.

"I wish no one to speak now," he said, "Instead of the Lady-mass
to-morrow we shall sing mass of the Holy Ghost; and afterwards I shall
have more to say to you again. I do not desire any to hold speech with
any other, but to look into their own hearts and seek counsel of God
there."

He still sat a moment silent, then rose and gave the signal.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a strange day for Chris. He did not know what to think, but he
was certain that they had not yet been told all. The Prior's silences
had been as pregnant as his words. There was something very close now
that would be revealed immediately, and meanwhile he must think out how
to meet it.

The atmosphere seemed charged all day; the very buildings wore a strange
air, unfamiliar and menacing. The intimate bond between his soul and
them, knit by associations of prayer and effort, appeared unreal and
flimsy. He was tormented by doubtfulness; he could not understand on the
one side how it was possible to yield to the King, on the other how it
was possible to resist. No final decision could be made by him until he
had heard the minds of his fellows; and fortunately they would all speak
before him. He busied himself then with disentangling the strands of
motive, desire, fear and hope, and waited for the shaking loose of the
knot until he knew more.

Mass of the Holy Ghost was sung next morning by the Prior himself in red
vestments; and Chris waited with expectant awe, remembering how the
Carthusians under like circumstances had been visited by God; but the
Host was uplifted and the bell rang; and there was nothing but the
candle-lit gloom of the choir about the altar, and the sigh of the wind
in the chapels behind.

Then in the chapter-meeting the Prior told them all.

       *       *       *       *       *

He reminded them how they had prayed that morning for guidance, and that
they must be fearless now in following it out. It was easy to be
reckless and call it faith, but prudence and reasonable common-sense
were attributes of the Christian no less than trust in God. They had not
to consider now what they would wish for themselves, but what God
intended for them so far as they could read it in the signs of the
times.

"For myself," he cried,--and Chris almost thought him sincere as he
spoke, so kindled was his face--"for myself I should ask no more than
to live and die in this place, as I had hoped. Every stone here is as
dear to me as to you, and I think more dear, for I have been in a
special sense the lord of it all; but I dare not think of that. We must
be ready to leave all willingly if God wills. We thought that we had
yielded all to follow Christ when we first set our necks here under His
sweet yoke; but I think He asks of us even more now; and that we should
go out from here even as we went out from our homes ten or twenty years
ago. We shall be no further from our God outside this place; and we may
be even nearer if we go out according to His will."

He seemed on fire with zeal and truth. His timid peevish air was gone,
and his delicate scholarly face was flushed as he spoke. Chris was
astonished, and more perplexed than ever. Was it then possible that
God's will might lie in the direction he feared?

"Now this is the matter which we have to consider," went on the Prior
more quietly. "His Grace has sent to ask, through a private messenger
from my Lord Cromwell, whether we will yield up the priory. There is no
compulsion in the matter--" he paused significantly--"and his Grace
desires each to act according to his judgment and conscience, of--of his
own free will."

There was a dead silence.

The news was almost expected by now. Through the months of anxiety each
monk had faced the probability of such tidings coming to him sooner or
later; and the last few days had brought expectation to its climax. Yet
it was hard to see the enemy face to face, and to know that there was no
possibility of resisting him finally.

The Sub-Prior rose to his feet and began to speak, glancing as if for
corroboration to his superior from time to time. His mouth worked a
little at the close of each sentence.

"My Lord Prior has shown us his own mind, and I am with him in the
matter. His Grace treats us like his own children; he wishes us to be
loving and obedient. But, as a father too, he has authority behind to
compel us to his will if we will not submit. And, as my Lord Prior said
yesterday, we do not know whether or no his Grace will not permit us to
remain here after all, if we are docile; or perhaps refound the priory
out of his own bounty. There is talk of the Chertsey monks going to the
London Charterhouse from Bisham where the King set them last year. But
we may be sure he will not do so with us if we resist his will now. I on
my part then am in favour of yielding up the house willingly, and
trusting ourselves to his Grace's clemency."

There was again silenc