of God.




CHAPTER III

THE ARRIVAL AT LEWES


Ralph relented as the month drew on, and was among those who wished
Chris good-bye on the afternoon of the July day on which he was to
present himself at Lewes. The servants were all drawn up at the back of
the terrace against the hall, watching Ralph, even more than his
departing brother, with the fascinated interest that the discreet and
dignified friend of Cromwell always commanded. Ralph was at his best on
such occasions, genial and natural, and showed a pleasing interest in
the girths of the two horses, and the exact strapping of the couple of
bags that Chris was to take with him. His own man, too, Mr. Morris, who
had been with him ever since he had come to London, was to ride with
Chris, at his master's express wish; stay with him in the guest-house
that night, and return with the two horses and a precise report the next
morning.

"You have the hares for my Lord Prior," he said impressively, looking at
the game that was hanging head downwards from the servant's saddle.
"Tell him that they were killed on Tuesday."

Sir James and his younger son were walking together a few yards away in
deep talk; and Lady Torridon had caused a chair to be set for her at the
top of the terrace steps where she could at once do her duty as a
mother, and be moderately comfortable at the same time. She hardly spoke
at all, but looked gravely with her enigmatic black eyes at the horses'
legs and the luggage, and once held up her hand to silence a small dog
that had begun to yelp with excitement.

"They must be going," said Ralph, when all was ready; and at the same
moment Chris and his father came up, Sir James's arm thrown over his
son's shoulders.

The farewells were very short; it was impossible to indulge in sentiment
in the genial business-atmosphere generated by Ralph, and a minute later
Chris was mounted. Sir James said no more, but stood a little apart
looking at his son. Lady Torridon smiled rather pleasantly and nodded
her head two or three times, and Ralph, with Mr. Carleton, stood on the
gravel below, his hand on Chris's crupper, smiling up at him.

"Good-bye, Chris," he said, and added with an unusual piety, "God keep
you!"

As the two horses passed through the gatehouse, Chris turned once again
with swimming eyes, and saw the group a little re-arranged. Sir James
and Ralph were standing together, Ralph's arm thrust through his
father's; Mr. Carleton was still on the gravel, and Lady Torridon was
walking very deliberately back to the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

The distance to Lewes was about fourteen miles, and it was not until
they had travelled some two of them, and had struck off towards Burgess
Hill that Chris turned his head for Mr. Morris to come up.

It was very strange to him to ride through that familiar country, where
he had ridden hundreds of times before, and to know that this was
probably the last time that he would pass along those lanes, at least
under the same circumstances. It had the same effect on him, as a death
in the house would have; the familiar things were the same, but they
wore a new and strange significance. The few men and children he passed
saluted him deferentially as usual, and then turned fifty yards further
on and stared at the young gentleman who, as they knew, was riding off
on such an errand, and with such grave looks.

Mr. Morris came up with an eager respectfulness at Chris's sign, keeping
a yard or two away lest the swinging luggage on his own horse should
discompose the master, and answered a formal question or two about the
roads and the bags, which Chris put to him as a gambit of conversation.
The servant was clever and well trained, and knew how to modulate his
attitude to the precise degree of deference due to his master and his
master's relations; he had entered Ralph's service from Cromwell's own
eight years before. He liked nothing better than to talk of London and
his experiences there, and selected with considerable skill the topics
that he knew would please in each case. Now he was soon deep on the
subject of Wolsey, pausing respectfully now and again for corroboration,
or to ask a question the answer to which he knew a good deal better than
Chris himself.

"I understand, sir, that the Lord Cardinal had a wonderful deal of
furniture at York House: I saw some of it at Master Cromwell's; his
grace sent it to him, at least, so I heard. Is that so, sir?"

Chris said he did not know.

"Well, I believe it was so, sir; there was a chair there, set with
agates and pearl, that I think I heard Mr. Ralph say had come from
there. Did you ever see my lord, sir?"

Chris said he had seen him once in a narrow street at Westminster, but
the crowd was so great he could not get near.

"Ah! sir; then you never saw him go in state. I remember once seeing
him, sir, going down to Hampton Court, with his gentlemen bearing the
silver pillars before him, and the two priests with crosses. What might
the pillars mean, sir?"

Again Chris confessed he did not know.

"Ah, sir!" said Morris reflectively, as if he had received a
satisfactory 