ght that there could be no danger in
his going to the King; it was so long since Lewes had fallen, and his
own part had been so small. But his Grace's memory was good, it seemed!
Danger was close to him, incarnate in that overwhelming presence. He
said nothing, but stood awaiting detection.

"It is strange," said Henry. "I have forgot. Well, my Lord?"

"I have told your Grace all," explained the Archbishop. "Mr. Ralph
Torridon has not yet been brought to trial, and his father hopes that
your Grace will take into consideration these two things: that it was a
mistake of over-faithfulness that his son committed; and that it has not
hindered the course of justice."

"Well, well," said Henry, "and that sounds to be in reason. We have none
too much of either faithfulness or justice in these days. And there is
no other charge against the fellow?"

"There is no other charge, your Grace."

There fell a complete silence for a moment or two.

Chris glanced up at his father, his own heart uplifted by hope, and saw
the old man's face trembling with it too. The wrinkled eyes were full of
tears, and his lips quivered; and Chris could feel the short cloak that
hung against him shaking at his hand. Nicholas's crimson face showed a
mingling of such emotion and solemnity that Chris was seized with an
internal hysterical spasm; but it suddenly died within him as he
brought his eyes round, and saw that the King was staring at him
moodily....

The Archbishop's voice broke in again.

"Are we to understand, your Grace, that your Grace's clemency is
extended to Mr. Ralph Torridon?"

"Eh! then," said the King peevishly, "hold your tongue, my Lord. I am
trying to remember. Where is Michael?"

"Shall I call him, your Grace?"

"Nay, then; let the lawyer ring the bell!"

Mr. Herries sprang to the table at the King's gesture, and struck the
little hand-bell that stood there. The door where the page had
disappeared five minutes before opened silently, and the servant stood
there.

"Michael," said the King, and the page vanished.

There was an uncomfortable silence. Cranmer stood back a little with an
air of patient deference, and his quick eyes glanced up now and again at
the party before him. There was a certain uneasiness in his manner, as
Chris could see; but the monk presently dropped his eyes again, as he
saw that the King was once more looking at him keenly, with tight pursed
lips, and a puzzled look on his forehead.

The thoughts began to race through Chris's brain. He found himself
praying with desperate speed that Michael, whoever he was, might not
know; and that the King might not remember; and meanwhile through
another part of his being ran the thought of the irony of his situation.
Here he was, come to plead for his brother's life, and on the brink of
having to plead for his own. The quiet room increased his sense of the
irony. It seemed so safe and strong and comfortable, up here in the rich
room, with the tall window looking on to the sunlit river, in a palace
girt about with guards; and yet the very security of it was his danger.
He had penetrated into the stronghold of the great beast that ruled
England: he was within striking distance of those red-stained claws and
teeth.

Then suddenly the creature stirred and snarled.

"I know it now, sir. You were one of the knaves that would not sign the
surrender of Lewes."

Chris lifted his eyes and dropped them again.

"God's Body," said the King, "and you come here!"

Again there was silence.

Chris saw his father half turn towards him with a piteous face, and
perceived that the lawyer had drawn a little away.

The King turned abruptly to Cranmer.

"Did you know this, my Lord?"

"Before God, I did not!"--but his voice shook as he answered.

Chris was gripping his courage, and at last spoke.

"We were told it was a free-will act, your Grace."

Henry said nothing to this. His eyes were rolling up and down the monk's
figure, with tight, thoughtful lips. Cranmer looked desperately at Sir
James.

"I did not know that, your Grace," he said again. "I only knew that this
priest's brother had been very active in your Grace's business."

Henry turned sharply.

"Eh?" he said.

Sir James's hands rose and clasped themselves instinctively. Cranmer
again looked at him almost fiercely.

"Mr. Ralph Torridon was one of the Visitors," explained the Archbishop
nervously.

"And this fellow a monk!" cried the King.

"They must have met at Lewes, your Grace."

"Ah! my Lord," cried Sir James suddenly. "I entreated you--"

Henry turned on him suddenly.

"Tell us the tale, sir. What is all this?"

Sir James took a faltering step forward, and then suddenly threw out his
hands.

"Ah! your Grace, it is a bitter tale for a father to tell. It is true,
all of it. My son here was a monk at Lewes. He would not sign the
surrender. I--I approved him for it. I--I was there when my son Ralph
cast him out--"

"God's blood!" cried the King with a beaming face. "The one brother cast
the other out!"

Chris saw the Archbishop's face suddenly lighten as he watched the King
sideways.

"But I cannot bear that he should be saved for that!" went