n, not
ecclesiastics, for this business."

"But Dr. Layton?" questioned Beatrice.

"Well, you might call him an ecclesiastic; but you would scarcely guess
it from himself. And no man could call him a partisan on that side."

"He would do better in one of his rectories, I should think," said
Beatrice.

"Well, that is not my business," observed Ralph.

"And what is your business?"

"Well, to ride round the country; examine the Religious, and make
enquiries of the country folk."

Beatrice began to tap her foot very softly. Ralph glanced down at the
bright buckle and smiled in spite of himself.

The girl went on.

"And by whose authority?"

"By his Grace's authority."

"And Dr. Cranmer's?"

"Well, yes; so far as he has any."

"I see," said Beatrice; and cast her eyes down again.

There was silence for a moment or two.

"You see too that I cannot withdraw," explained Ralph, a little
distressed at her air. "It is part of my duty."

"Oh! I understand that," said Beatrice.

"And so long as I act justly, there is no harm done."

The girl was silent.

"You understand that?" he asked.

"I suppose I do," said Beatrice slowly.

Ralph made a slight impatient movement.

"No--wait," said the girl, "I do understand. If I cannot trust you, I
had better never have known you. I do understand that I can trust you;
though I cannot understand how you can do such work."

She raised her eyes slowly to his; and Ralph as he looked into them saw
that she was perfectly sincere, and speaking without bitterness.

"Sweetheart," he said. "I could not have taken that from any but you;
but I know that you are true, and mean no more nor less than your words.
You do trust me?"

"Why, yes," said the girl; and smiled at him as he took her in his arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

When she had gone again Ralph had a difficult quarter of an hour.

He knew that she trusted him, but was it not simply because she did not
know? He sat and pondered the talk he had had with Cromwell and the
Archbishop. Neither had expressly said that what was wanted was adverse
testimony against the Religious Houses; but that, Ralph knew very well,
was what was asked of him. They had talked a great deal about the
corruptions that the Visitors would no doubt find, and Cranmer had told
a story or two, with an appearance of great distress, of scandalous
cases that had come under his own notice. Cromwell too had pointed out
that such corruptions did incalculable evil; and that an immoral monk
did far more harm in a countryside than his holy brethren could do of
good. Both had said a word too about the luxury and riches to be found
in the houses of those who professed poverty, and of the injury done to
Christ's holy religion by such insincere pretences.

Ralph knew too, from previous meetings with the other Visitors, the kind
of work for which such men would be likely to be selected.

There was Dr. Richard Layton first, whom Ralph was to join in Sussex at
the end of September, a priest who had two or three preferments and
notoriously neglected them; Ralph had taken a serious dislike to him. He
was a coarse man who knew how to cringe effectively; and Ralph had
listened to him talking to Cromwell, with some dismay. But he would be
to a large extent independent of him, and only in his company at some of
the larger houses that needed more than one Visitor. Thomas Legh, too, a
young doctor of civil law, was scarcely more attractive. He was a man of
an extraordinary arrogance, carrying his head high, and looking about
him with insolently drooping eyes. Ralph had been at once amused and
angry to see him go out into the street after his interview with
Cromwell, where his horse and half-a-dozen footmen awaited him, and to
watch him ride off with the airs of a vulgar prince. The Welshman Ap
Rice too, and the red-faced bully, Dr. London, were hardly persons whom
he desired as associates, and the others were not much better; and Ralph
found himself feeling a little thankful that none of these men had been
in his house just now, when Cromwell and the Archbishop had called in
the former's carriage, and when Beatrice had met them there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph had a moment, ten minutes after Beatrice had left, when he was
inclined to snatch up his hat and go after Cromwell to tell him to do
his own dirty work; but his training had told, and he had laughed at the
folly of the thought. Why, of course, the work had to be done! England
was rotten with dreams and superstition. Ecclesiasticism had corrupted
genuine human life, and national sanity could not be restored except by
a violent process. Innocent persons would no doubt suffer--innocent
according to conscience, but guilty against the commonwealth. Every
great movement towards good was bound to be attended by individual
catastrophes; but it was the part of a strong man to carry out
principles and despise details.

The work had to be done; it was better then that there should be at
least one respectable workman. Of course such a work needed coarse men
to carry it out; it was bound to be accompanied by some brutality; a