ret aloud to any living soul, not even to her own. When the question
came, as she knew it would, she had not hesitated an instant as to the
answer, and yet the answer had materialised what had been impalpable
before.

As she had looked down from the gallery this morning she knew that she
hated, in theory, every detail of his outlook on life; he was brutal,
insincere; he had lied to her; he was living on the fruits of sacrilege;
he had outraged every human tie he possessed; and yet she loved every
hair of his dark head, every movement of his strong hands. It was that
that had broken down the mother's reserve; she had been beaten by the
girl's insolence, as a dog is beaten into respect; she had only one
thing that she had not been able to forgive, and that was that this
girl had tossed aside her son's love; then the question had been asked
and answered; and the work had been done. The dying woman had
surrendered wholly to the superior personality; and had obeyed like a
child.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had a sense of terrible guilt as she went downstairs into the
passage that opened on the court; the fact that she had put into words
what had lain in her heart, made her fancy that the secret was written
on her face. Then again she drove the imagination down by sheer will;
she knew that she had won back her self-control, and could trust her own
discretion.

Their greeting was that of two acquaintances. There was not the tremor
of an eyelid of either, or a note in either voice, that betrayed that
their relations had once been different. Ralph thanked her courteously
for her attention to his mother; and she made a proper reply. Then they
all sat down to breakfast.

Then Margaret had to be attended to, for she was half-wild with remorse;
she declared to Beatrice when they went upstairs together that she had
been a wicked daughter, that she had resented her mother's words again
and again, had behaved insolently, and so forth. Beatrice took her in
her arms.

"My dear," she said, "indeed you must leave all that now. Come and see
her; she is at peace, and you must be."

The bedroom where Lady Torridon had died was arranged as a _chapelle
ardente;_ the great bed had been moved out into the centre of the room.
Six tall candlesticks with escutcheons and yellow tapers formed a
slender mystical wall of fire and light about it; the windows were
draped a couple of kneeling desks were set at the foot of the bed.
Chris was kneeling at one beside his father as they went in, and Mary
Maxwell, who had arrived a few hours before death had taken place, was
by herself in a corner.

Beatrice drew Margaret to the second desk, pushed the book to her, and
knelt by her. There lay the body of the strange, fierce, lonely woman,
with her beautiful hands crossed, pale as wax, with a crucifix between
them; and those great black eyebrows beyond, below which lay the double
reverse curve of the lashes. It seemed as if she was watching them both,
as her manner had been in life, with a tranquil cynicism.

And was she at peace, thought Beatrice, as she had told her daughter
just now? Was it possible to believe that that stormy, vicious spirit
had been quieted so suddenly? And yet that would be no greater miracle
than that which death had wrought to the body. If the one was so still,
why not the other? At least she had asked pardon of her husband for
those years of alienation; she had demanded the sacraments of the
Church!

Beatrice bowed her head, and prayed for the departed soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was disturbed by the soft opening of a door, and lifted her eyes to
see Ralph stand a moment by the head of the bed, before he sank on his
knees. She could watch every detail of his face in the candlelight; his
thin tight lips, his heavy eyebrows so like his mother's, his curved
nostrils, the clean sharp line of his jaw.

She found herself analysing his processes of thought. His mother had
been the one member of his family with whom he had had sympathy; they
understood one another, these two bitter souls, as no one else did,
except perhaps Beatrice herself. How aloof they had stood from all
ordinary affections; how keen must have been their dual loneliness! And
what did this snapped thread mean to him now? To what, in his opinion,
did the broken end lead that had passed out from the visible world to
the invisible? Did he think that all was over, and that the one soul
that had understood his own had passed like a candle flame into the
dark? And she too--was she crying for her son, a thin soundless sobbing
in the world beyond sight? Above all, did he understand how alone he was
now--how utterly, eternally alone, unless he turned his course?

A great well of pity broke up and surged in her heart, flooding her eyes
with tears, as she looked at the living son and the dead mother; and she
dropped her head on her hands again, and prayed for his soul as well as
for hers.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a very strange atmosphere in the house during the day or two that
passed before the funeral. The household met at