relapsed again to bright-eyed
intelligence as for an instant the President glanced up from his
motionlessness.

"Franklin," repeated the secretary, "and he is living in Nazareth,
where, it is said, the Founder of Christianity passed His youth.

"Now this, gentlemen, His Honour heard on Thursday in last week. He
caused inquiries to be made, and on Friday morning received further
intelligence from Dolgorovski that this Pope had summoned to Nazareth a
meeting of his cardinals, and certain other officials, from all over the
world, to consider what steps should be taken in view of the new Test
Act. This His Honour takes to show an extreme want of statesmanship
which seems hard to reconcile with his former action. These persons are
summoned by special messengers to meet on Saturday next, and will begin
their deliberations after some Christian ceremonies on the following
morning.

"You wish, gentlemen, no doubt, to know Dolgorovski's motives in making
all this known. His Honour is satisfied that they are genuine. The man
has been losing belief in his religion; in fact, he has come to see that
this religion is the supreme obstacle to the consolidation of the race.
He has esteemed it his duty, therefore, to lay this information before
His Honour. It is interesting as an historical parallel to reflect that
the same kind of incident marked the rise of Christianity as will mark,
it is thought, its final extinction--namely, the informing on the part
of one of the leaders of the place and method by which the principal
personage may be best approached. It is also, surely, very significant
that the scene of the extinction of Christianity is identical with that
of its inauguration....

"Well, gentlemen, His Honour's proposal is as follows, carrying out the
Declaration to which you all acceded. It is that a force should proceed
during the night of Saturday next to Palestine, and on the Sunday
morning, when these men will be all gathered together, that this force
should finish as swiftly and mercifully as possible the work to which
the Powers have set their hands. So far, the comment of the Governments
which have been consulted has been unanimous, and there is little doubt
that the rest will be equally so. His Honour felt that He could not act
in on grave a matter on His own responsibility; it is not merely local;
it is a catholic administration of justice, and will have results wider
than it is safe minutely to prophesy.

"It is not necessary to enter into His Honour's reasons. They are
already well known to you; but before asking for your opinion, He
desires me to indicate what He thinks, in the event of your approval,
should be the method of action.

"Each Government, it is proposed, should take part in the final scene,
for it is something of a symbolic action; and for this purpose it is
thought well that each of the three Departments of the World should
depute volors, to the number of the constituting States, one hundred and
twenty-two all told, to set about the business. These volors should have
no common meeting-ground, otherwise the news will surely penetrate to
Nazareth, for it is understood that, this new Order of Christ Crucified
has a highly organised system of espionage. The rendezvous, then, should
be no other than Nazareth itself; and the time of meeting should be, it
is thought, not later than nine o'clock according to Palestine
reckoning. These details, however, can be decided and communicated as
soon as a determination has been formed as regards the entire scheme.

"With respect to the exact method of carrying out the conclusion, His
Honour is inclined to think it will be more merciful to enter into no
negotiations with the persons concerned. An opportunity should be given
to the inhabitants of the village to make their escape if they so desire
it, and then, with the explosives that the force should carry, the end
can be practically instantaneous.

"For Himself, His Honour proposes to be there in person, and further
that the actual discharge should take place from His own car. It seems
but suitable that the world which has done His Honour the goodness to
elect Him to its Presidentship should act through His hands; and this
would be at least some slight token of respect to a superstition which,
however infamous, is yet the one and only force capable of withstanding
the true progress of man.

"His Honour promises you, gentlemen, that in the event of this plan
being carried out, we shall be no more troubled with Christianity.
Already the moral effect of the Test Act has been prodigious. It is
understood that, by tens of thousands, Catholics, numbering among them
even members of this new fanatical Religious Order, have been renouncing
their follies even in these few days; and a final blow struck now at the
very heart and head of the Catholic Church, eliminating, as it would do,
the actual body on which the entire organisation subsists, would render
its resurrection impossible. It is a well-known fact that, granted the
extinction of the line of Popes, together with those necessary for its
continuance, there could be no longer any q