as only begun.

Bedale, the Archdeacon of Cornwall, had gone that day to the
Charterhouse; he had been seen driving there, and getting out at the
door with a bundle of books under his arm, and he had passed in through
the gate over which Prior Houghton's arm had been hung on the previous
evening. It was expected that some more arrests would be made
immediately.

"As for my Lord of Rochester," said the monk, who seemed to revel in the
business of bearing bad news, "and Master More, I make no doubt they
will be cast. They are utterly fixed in their opinions. I hear that my
lord is very sick, and I pray that God may take him to Himself. He is
made Cardinal in Rome, I hear; but his Grace has sworn that he shall
have no head to wear the hat upon."

Then he went off into talk upon the bishop, describing his sufferings in
the Tower, for he was over eighty years old, and had scarcely sufficient
clothes to cover him.

Now and again Chris looked across at his Superior. The Prior sat there
in his great chair, his head on his hand, silent and absorbed; it was
only when Dom Odo stopped for a moment that he glanced up impatiently
and nodded for him to go on. It seemed as if he could not hear enough,
and yet Chris saw him wince, and heard him breathe sharply as each new
detail came out.

The monk told them, too, of Prior Houghton's speech upon the cart.

"They asked him whether even then he would submit to the King's laws,
and he called God to witness that it was not for obstinacy or perversity
that he refused, but that the King and the Parliament had decreed
otherwise than our Holy Mother enjoins; and that for himself he would
sooner suffer every kind of pain than deny a doctrine of the Church. And
when he had prayed from the thirtieth Psalm, he was turned off."

The Prior stared almost vacantly at the monk who told his story with a
kind of terrified gusto, and once or twice his lips moved to speak; but
he was silent, and dropped his chin upon his hand again when the other
had done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris scarcely knew how the days passed away that followed his arrival
in London. He spent them for the most part within doors, writing for the
Prior in the mornings, or keeping watch over the door as his Superior
talked with prelates and churchmen within, for ecclesiastical London was
as busy as a broken ant-hill, and men came and went continually--scared,
furtive monks, who looked this way and that, an abbot or two up for the
House of Lords, priors and procurators on business. There were continual
communications going to and fro among the religious houses, for the
prince of them, the contemplative Carthusian, had been struck at, and no
one knew where the assault would end.

Meanwhile, Chris had heard no further news from Ralph.` He thought of
writing to him, and even of visiting him again, but his heart sickened
at the thought of it. It was impossible, he told himself, that any
communication should pass between them until his brother had forsaken
his horrible business; the first sign of regret must come from the one
who had sinned. He wondered sometimes who the girl was, and, as a
hot-headed monk, suspected the worst. A man who could live as Ralph was
living could have no morals left. She had been so friendly with him, so
ready to defend him, so impatient, Chris thought, of any possibility of
wrong. No doubt she, too, was one of the corrupt band, one of the great
ladies that buzzed round the Court, and sucked the blood of God's
people.

His own interior life, however, so roughly broken by his new
experiences, began to mend slowly as the days went on.

He had begun, like a cat in a new house, to make himself slowly at home
in the hostel, and to set up that relation between outward objects and
his own self that is so necessary to interior souls not yet living in
detachment. He arranged his little room next the Prior's to be as much
as possible like his cell, got rid of one or two pieces of furniture
that distracted him, set his bed in another corner, and hung up his
beads in the same position that they used to occupy at Lewes. Each
morning he served the Prior's mass in the tiny chapel attached to the
house, and did his best both then and at his meditation to draw in the
torn fibres of his spirit. At moments of worship the supernatural world
began to appear again, like points of living rock emerging through sand,
detached and half stifled by external details, but real and abiding.
Little by little his serenity came back, and the old atmosphere
reasserted itself. After all, God was here as there; grace, penance, the
guardianship of the angels and the sacrament of the altar was the same
at Southwark as at Lewes. These things remained; while all else was
accidental--the different height of his room, the unfamiliar angles in
the passages, the new noises of London, the street cries, the clash of
music, the disordered routine of dally life.

Half-way through June, after a long morning's conversation with a
stranger, the Prior sent for him.

He was standing by the tall carved fire-place with his back to the door,
his head and