 one hand leaning against the stone, and he turned round
despondently as Chris came in. Chris could see he was deadly pale and
that his lips twitched with nervousness.

"Brother," he said, "I have a perilous matter to go through, and you
must come with me."

Chris felt his heart begin to labour with heavy sick beats.

"I am to see my Lord of Rochester. A friend hath obtained the order. We
are to go at five o'clock. See that you be ready. We shall take boat at
the stairs."

Chris waited, with his eyes deferentially cast down.

"He is to be tried again on Thursday," went on the Prior, "and my
friends wish me to see him, God knows--"

He stopped abruptly, made a sign with his hand, and as Chris left the
room he saw that he was leaning once more against the stone-work, and
that his head was buried in his arms.

Three more Carthusians had been condemned in the previous week, but the
Bishop's trial, though his name was in the first indictment, was
postponed a few days.

He too, like Sir Thomas More, had been over a year in the Tower; he had
been deprived of his see by an Act of Parliament, his palace had been
broken into and spoiled, and he himself, it was reported, was being
treated with the greatest rigour in the Tower.

Chris was overcome with excitement at the thought that he was to see
this man. He had heard of his learning, his holiness, and his
austerities on all hands since his coming to London. When the bishop had
left Rochester at his summons to London a year before there had been a
wonderful scene of farewell, of which the story was still told in town.
The streets had been thronged with a vast crowd weeping and praying, as
he rode among them bare-headed, giving his blessing as he went. He had
checked his horse by the city-gate, and with a loud voice had bidden
them all stand by the old religion, and let no man take it from them.
And now here he lay himself in prison for the Faith, a Cardinal of the
Holy Roman Church, with scarcely clothes to cover him or food to eat. At
the sacking of his palace, too, as the men ran from room to room tearing
down the tapestries, and piling the plate together, a monk had found a
great iron box hidden in a corner. They cried to one another that it
held gold "for the bloody Pope"; and burst it open to find a hair shirt,
and a pair of disciplines.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a long row down to the Tower from Southwark against the
in-flowing tide. As they passed beneath the bridge Chris stared up at
the crowding houses, the great gates at either end, and the faces
craning down; and he caught one glimpse as they shot through the narrow
passage between the piers, of the tall wall above the gate, the poles
rising from it, and the severed heads that crowned them. Somewhere among
that forest of grim stems the Carthusian priors looked down.

As he turned in his seat he saw the boatman grinning to himself, and
following his eyes observed the Prior beside him with a white fixed face
looking steadily downwards towards his feet.

They found no difficulty when they landed at the stairs, and showed the
order at the gate. The warder called to a man within the guard-room who
came out and went before them along the walled way that led to the
inner ward. They turned up to the left presently and found themselves in
the great court that surrounded the White Tower.

The Prior walked heavily with his face downcast as if he wished to avoid
notice, and Chris saw that he paid no attention to the men-at-arms and
other persons here and there who saluted his prelate's insignia. There
were plenty of people going about in the evening sunshine, soldiers and
attendants, and here and there at the foot of a tower stood a halberdier
in his buff jacket leaning on his weapon. There were many distinguished
persons in the Tower now, both ecclesiastics and laymen who had refused
to take one or both of the oaths, and Chris eyed the windows
wonderingly, picturing to himself where each lay, and with what courage.

But more and more as he went he wondered why the Prior and he were here,
and who had obtained the order of admittance, for he had not had a sight
of it.

When they reached the foot of the prison-tower the warder said a word to
the sentry, and took the two monks straight past, preceding them up the
narrow stairs that wound into darkness. There were windows here and
there, slits in the heavy masonry, through which Chris caught glimpses,
now of the moat on the west, now of the inner ward with the White Tower
huge and massive on the east.

The Prior, who went behind the warder and in front of Chris, stopped
suddenly, and Chris could hear him whispering to himself; and at the
same time there sounded the creaking of a key in front.

As the young monk stood there waiting, grasping the stone-work on his
right, again the excitement surged up; and with it was mingled something
of terror. It had been a formidable experience even to walk those few
hundred yards from the outer gate, and the obvious apprehensiveness of
the Prior who had spoken no audible word since they had landed, was far
from reassuring.

Here h