e as he sat down; and a pause of a minute or two
before Dom Anthony rose. His ruddy face was troubled and perplexed; but
he spoke resolutely enough.

He said that he could not understand why the matter had not been laid
before them earlier, that they might have had time to consider it. The
question was an extremely difficult one to the consciences of some of
them. On the one hand there was the peril of acquiescing in
sacrilege--the Prior twisted in his seat as he heard this--and on the
other of wilfully and petulantly throwing away their only opportunity of
saving their priory. He asked for time.

Several more made speeches, some in favour of the proposal, and some
asking, as Dom Anthony had done, for further tine for consideration.
They had no precedents, they said, on which to decide such a question,
for they understood that it was not on account of treason that they
were required to surrender the house and property.

The Prior rose with a white face.

"No, no," he cried. "God forbid! That is over and done with. I--we have
made our peace with my Lord Cromwell in that affair."

"Then why," asked Dom Anthony, "are we required to yield it?"

The Prior glanced helplessly at him.

"I--it is as a sign that the King is temporal lord of the land."

"We do not deny that," said the other.

"Some do," said the Prior feebly.

There was a little more discussion. Dom Anthony remarked that it was not
a matter of temporal but spiritual headship that was in question. To
meddle with the Religious Orders was to meddle with the Vicar of Christ
under whose special protection they were; and it seemed to him at least
a probable opinion, so far as he had had time to consider it, that to
yield, even in the hopes of saving their property ultimately, was to
acquiesce in the repudiation of the authority of Rome.

And so it went on for an hour; and then as it grew late, the Prior rose
once more, and asked if any one had a word to say who had not yet
spoken.

Chris had intended to speak, but all that he wished to ask had already
been stated by others; and he sat now silent, staring up at the Prior,
and down at the smooth boarded floor at his feet. He had not an idea
what to do. He was no theologian.

Then the Prior unmasked his last gun.

"As regards the matter of time for consideration, that is now passed. In
spite of what some have said we have had sufficient warning. All here
must have known that the choice would be laid before them, for months
past; it is now an answer that is required of us."

He paused a moment longer. His lips began to tremble, but he made a
strong effort and finished.

"Master Petre will be here to-night, as my lord Cromwell's
representative, and will sit in the chapter-house to-morrow to receive
the surrender."

Dom Anthony started to his feet. The Prior made a violent gesture for
silence, and then gave the signal to break up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the bewildering day went past. The very discipline of the house
was a weakness in the defence of the surprised party. It was impossible
for them to meet and discuss the situation as they wished; and even the
small times of leisure seemed unusually occupied. Dom Anthony was busy
at the guest-house; one of the others who had spoken against the
proposal was sent off on a message by the Prior, and another was ordered
to assist the sacristan to clean the treasures in view of the Visitor's
coming.

Chris was not able to ask a word of advice from any of those whom he
thought to be in sympathy with him.

He sat all day over his antiphonary, in the little carrel off the
cloister, and as he worked his mind toiled like a mill.

He had progressed a long way with the work now, and was engaged on the
pages that contained the antiphons for Lent. The design was soberer
here; the angels that had rested among the green branches and early
roses of Septuagesima, thrusting here a trumpet and there a harp among
the leaves, had taken flight, and grave menacing creatures were in their
place. A jackal looked from behind the leafless trunk, a lion lifted
his toothed mouth to roar from a thicket of thorns, as they had lurked
and bellowed in the bleak wilderness above the Jordan fifteen hundred
years ago. They were gravely significant now, he thought; and scarcely
knowing what he did he set narrow human eyes in the lion's face (for he
knew no better) and broadened the hanging jaws with a delicate line or
two.

Then with a fierce impulse he crowned him, and surmounted the crown with
a cross.

And all the while his mind toiled at the problem. There were three
things open to him on the morrow. Either he might refuse to sign the
surrender, and take whatever consequences might follow; or he might sign
it; and there were two processes of thought by which he might take that
action. By the first he would simply make an act of faith in his
superiors, and do what they did because they did it; by the second he
would sign it of his own responsibility because he decided to think that
by doing so he would be taking the best action for securing his own
monastic life.

He considered these three. To 