usual paleness, if there had been in those hands, one of which
bore the great Papal ring, not merely trembling, but even a sign
of constriction or tenseness, it might well have been, thought
the priest afterwards, that the scene would have ended very
differently. But the naturalness and ease of the pose were
absolute. He stood there, the hands lightly laid one upon the
other, his face palish certainly, but not colourless. There was
even a slight flush in his cheeks from his quick walk up the long
hall. It was a situation in which the weight of a hair would turn
the scale. . . .

Then the President lifted his head slightly, and a tremor ran
round the circle.

"I see no reason for delay," he said heavily. "Our terms were
clear. This man came with the full knowledge of them and the
consequences of disregarding them----"

The Pope lifted his hand.

"One instant, Mr. President----"

"I see no reason----"

"Gentlemen-----"

A murmur of consent rolled round the thirty persons sitting there,
so unmistakable that the man who up to now had ruled them all with
a hint or gesture dropped his head again. Then the Pope went on.

"Gentlemen, I have really no more to say than that which I have
said. But I beg of you to reconsider. You propose to kill me as
you have killed my messengers. Well, I am at your disposal. I did
not expect to live so long when I set out from Rome this morning.
But, then, what will you gain? At midnight every civilized nation
is in arms. And I will tell you what perhaps you do not
know--that the East is supporting Europe. The Eastern fleets are
actually on their way at this moment that I speak. You propose to
reform Society. I will not argue as to those reforms; I say only
that they are too late. I will not argue as to the truth of the
Christian religion. I say only that the Christian religion is
already ruling this world. You kill me? My successor will reign
to-morrow. . . . You kill the Emperor; his son, now in Rome, at
that moment begins to reign. Gentlemen, what do you gain? Merely
this--that in days to come your names will be foul in all men's
mouths. . . . At this moment you have an opportunity to submit;
in a few minutes it will be too late."

He paused a moment.

Then, to the priest's eyes, it seemed as if some subtle change
passed over his face and figure. Up to now he had spoken,
conversationally and quietly, as a man might speak to a company
of friends. But, though he had not noticed it at the time, he
remembered later how there had been gathering during his little
speech a certain secret intensity and force like the kindling of
a fire. In this pause it swept on and up, flushing his face with
sudden colour, lifting his hands as on a rising tide, breaking
out suddenly in his eyes like fire, and in his voice in passion.
The rest saw it too; and in that tense atmosphere it laid hold
of them as with a giant's hand; it struck their tight-strung
nerves; it broke down the last barriers on which their own fears
had been at work.

"My children," cried the White Father, no longer a Frenchman now,
but a very Son of Man. "My children, do not break my heart! So
long and hard the labour--two thousand years long--two thousand
years since Christ died; and you to wreck and break the peace that
comes at last; that peace into which through so great tribulations
the people of God are entering at last. You say you know no God,
and cannot love Him; but you know man---poor wilful man--and would
you fling him back once more into wrath and passion and lust for
blood?--those lusts from which even now he might pass to peace if
it were not for you. You say that Christ is hard--that His Church
is cruel, and that man must have liberty? I too say that man must
have liberty--he was made for it; but what liberty would that be
which he has not learned to use?

"My children! have pity on men, and on me who strive to be their
father. Never yet has Christ reigned on earth till now--Christ who
Himself died, as I, His poor servant, am ready to die a thousand
times, if men may but themselves learn to die to self and to live
to Him. Have pity, then, on the world you love and hope to serve.
Serve it indeed as best you can. Let us serve it together!"

   *   *   *   *   *

There was an instant's silence.

He stood there, his hands clasped in agony upon his cross. Then
he flung his hands wide in sudden, silent appeal.

There was a crash of an overturned desk; the crying out of
desperate voices all together, and as from the great tower
overhead there beat out the first stroke of midnight, the priest,
on his knees now, saw through eyes blind with tears, figures
moving and falling and kneeling towards that central form that
stood there, a white pillar of Royalty and sorrow, calling for
the last time all the world unto him.

   *   *   *   *   *

But the President sat still at his desk, motionless.




CHAPTER IV



(I)

The sight on which the watcher's eyes rested, as he sat, hung
here in motionlessness above Westminster, a hundred feet higher
than the great St. Edward's Tower itself, was one not only
undreamed of, but even inconceivable to men of earl