sh chatter of
a secular hall and the bustling and officiousness of paid servants.

After a general washing of hands the monks dispersed to their work, and
the novices to bowls or other games; the Prior first distributing the
garden instruments, and then beginning the labour with a commendation of
it to God; and after finishing the manual work and a short time of
study, they re-assembled in the cloister to go to Vespers. This, like
the high mass, was performed with the ceremonial proper to the day, and
was followed by supper, at which the same kind of ceremonies were
observed as at dinner. When this was over, after a further short
interval the evening reading or Collation took place in the
chapter-house, after which the monks were at liberty to go and warm
themselves at the one great fire kept up for the purpose in the
calefactory; and then compline was sung, followed by Our Lady's Anthem.

This for Chris was one of the climaxes of the day's emotions. He was
always tired out by now with the day's work, and longing for bed, and
this approach to the great Mother of Monks soothed and quieted him. It
was sung in almost complete darkness, except for a light or two in the
long nave where a dark figure or two would be kneeling, and the pleasant
familiar melody, accompanied softly by the organ overhead after the bare
singing of Compline, seemed like a kind of good-night kiss. The
infinite pathos of the words never failed to touch him, the cry of the
banished children of Eve, weeping and mourning in this vale of tears to
Mary whose obedience had restored what Eve's self-will had ruined, and
the last threefold sob of endearment to the "kindly, loving, sweet,
Virgin Mary." After the high agonisings and aspirations of the day's
prayer, the awfulness of the holy Sacrifice, the tramping monotony of
the Psalter, the sting of the discipline, the aches and sweats of the
manual labour, the intent strain of the illuminating, this song to Mary
was a running into Mother's arms and finding compensation there for all
toils and burdens.

Finally in complete silence the monks passed along the dark cloister,
sprinkled with holy water as they left the church, up to the dormitory
which ran over the whole length of the chapter house, the bridges and
other offices, to sleep till midnight.

       *       *       *       *       *

The effect of this life, unbroken by external distractions, was to make
Chris's soul alert and perceptive to the inner world, and careless or
even contemptuous of the ordinary world of men. This spiritual realm
began for the first time to disclose its details to him, and to show
itself to some extent a replica of nature. It too had its varying
climate, its long summer of warmth and light, its winter of dark
discontent, its strange and bewildering sunrises of Christ upon the
soul, when He rose and went about His garden with perfume and music, or
stayed and greeted His creature with the message of His eyes. Chris
began to learn that these spiritual changes were in a sense independent
of him, that they were not in his soul, but rather that his soul was in
them. He could be happy and content when the winds of God were cold and
His light darkened, or sad and comfortless when the flowers of grace
were apparent and the river of life bright and shining.

And meanwhile the ordinary world went on, but far away and dimly heard
and seen; as when one looks down from a castle-garden on to humming
streets five hundred feet below; and the old life at Overfield, and
Ralph's doings in London seemed unreal and fantastic activities,
purposeless and empty.

Little by little, however, as the point of view shifted, Chris began to
find that the external world could not be banished, and that the
annoyances from the clash of characters discordant with his own were as
positive as those which had distressed him before. Dom Anselm Bowden's
way of walking and the patch of grease at the shoulder of his cowl,
never removed, and visible as he went before him into the church was as
distractingly irritating as Ralph's contempt; the buzz in the voice of a
cantor who seemed always to sing on great days was as distressing as his
own dog's perversity at Overfield, or the snapping of a bow-string.

When _accidie_ fell upon Chris it seemed as if this particular house was
entirely ruined by such incidents; the Prior was finickin, the
junior-master tyrannical, the paints for illumination inferior in
quality, the straw of his bed peculiarly sharp, the chapter-house
unnecessarily draughty. And until he learnt from his confessor that this
spiritual ailment was a perfectly familiar one, and that its symptoms
and effects had been diagnosed centuries before, and had taken him at
his word and practised the remedies he enjoined, Chris suffered
considerably from discontent and despair alternately. At times others
were intolerable, at times he was intolerable to himself, reproaching
himself for having attempted so high a life, criticising his fellows
for so lowering it to a poor standard.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first time that he was accused in chapter of a