against the guest, who was a
representative in her eyes of all that was narrow-minded and
contemptible. Here was a girl, she seemed to tell herself, who had had
every opportunity of emancipation, who had been singularly favoured in
being noticed by Ralph, and who had audaciously thrown him over for the
sake of some ridiculous scruples worthy only of idiots and nuns. Indeed
to Chris it was fairly plain that his mother had consented so willingly
to Beatrice's visit with the express purpose of punishing her.

But Beatrice held her own triumphantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had not sat down three minutes before Lady Torridon opened the
assault, with grave downcast face and in her silkiest manner. She went
abruptly back to the point where the conversation had been interrupted
in the parlour by Margaret's entrance.

"Mistress Atherton," she observed, playing delicately with her spoon, "I
think you said that to your mind the times were difficult for those who
had no opinions."

Beatrice looked at her pleasantly.

"Yes, Mistress Torridon; at least more difficult for those, than for the
others who know their own mind."

The other waited a moment, expecting the girl to justify herself, but
she was forced to go on.

"Abbot Marshall knew his mind, but it was not easy for him."

(The news had just arrived of the Abbot's execution).

"Do you think not, mistress? I fear I still hold my opinion."

"And what do you mean by that?"

"I mean that unless we have something to hold to, in these troublesome
times, we shall drift. That is all."

"Ah! and drift whither?"

Beatrice smiled so genially as she answered, that the other had no
excuse for taking offence.

"Well, it might be better not to answer that."

Lady Torridon looked at her with an impassive face.

"To hell, then?" she said.

"Well, yes: to hell," said Beatrice.

There was a profound silence; broken by the stifled merriment of a
servant behind the chairs, who transformed it hastily into a cough. Sir
James glanced across in great distress at his son; but Chris' eyes
twinkled at him.

Lady Torridon was silent a moment, completely taken aback by the
suddenness with which the battle had broken, and amazed by the girl's
audacity. She herself was accustomed to use brutality, but not to meet
it. She laid her spoon carefully down.

"Ah!" she said, "and you believe that? And for those who hold wrong
opinions, I suppose you would believe the same?"

"If they were wrong enough," said Beatrice, "and through their fault.
Surely we are taught to believe that, Mistress Torridon?"

The elder woman said nothing at all, and went on with her soup. Her
silence was almost more formidable than her speech, and she knew that,
and contrived to make it offensive. Beatrice paid no sort of attention
to it, however; and without looking at her again began to talk
cheerfully to Sir James about her journey from town. Margaret watched
her, fascinated; her sedate beautiful face, her lace and jewels, her
white fingers, long and straight, that seemed to endorse the impression
of strength that her carriage and manner of speaking suggested; as one
might watch a swordsman between the rounds of a duel and calculate his
chances. She knew very well that her mother would not take her first
repulse easily; and waited in anxiety for the next clash of swords.

Beatrice seemed perfectly fearless, and was talking about the King with
complete freedom, and yet with a certain discretion too.

"He will have his way," she said. "Who can doubt that?"

Lady Torridon saw an opening for a wound, and leapt at it.

"As he had with Master More," she put in.

Beatrice turned her head a little, but made no answer; and there was not
the shadow of wincing on her steady face.

"As he had with Master More," said Lady Torridon a little louder.

"We must remember that he has my Lord Cromwell to help him," observed
Beatrice tranquilly.

Lady Torridon looked at her again. Even now she could scarcely believe
that this stranger could treat her with such a supreme indifference. And
there was a further sting, too, in the girl's answer, for all there
understood the reference to Ralph; and yet again it was impossible to
take offence.

Margaret looked at her father, half-frightened, and saw again a look of
anxiety in his eyes; he was crumbling his bread nervously as he answered
Beatrice.

"My Lord Cromwell--" he began.

"My Lord Cromwell has my son Ralph under him," interrupted his wife.
"Perhaps you did not know that, Mistress Atherton."

Margaret again looked quickly up; but there was still no sign of wincing
on those scarlet lips, or beneath the black eyebrows.

"Why, of course, I knew it," said Beatrice, looking straight at her with
large, innocent eyes, "that was why--"

She stopped; and Lady Torridon really roused now, made a false step.

"Yes?" she said. "You did not end your sentence?"

Beatrice cast an ironically despairing look behind her at the servants.

"Well," she said, "if you will have it: that was why I would not marry
him. Did you not know that, Mistress?"

It was so daring that Margaret caught her breath suddenly; and 