othing till he had led his horse into the stable. Then
he explained.

"One of the fellows told me, sir, that this was the King's house now;
and that I had no business here."

Chris smiled again.

"I know we are watched," he said, "the servants are questioned each time
they set foot outside."

Mr. Morris pursed his lips.

"How long shall you be here, sir?" he asked.

"Until we are turned out," said Chris.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was true, as he had said, that the house was watched. Ever since the
last monk had left there had been a man or two at the gate, another
outside the church-door that opened towards the town; and another yet
again beyond the stream to the south of the priory-buildings. Dom
Anthony had told him what it meant. It was that the authorities had no
objection to the two monks keeping the place until it could be dealt
with, but were determined that nothing should pass out. It had not been
worthwhile to send in a caretaker, for all the valuables had been
removed either by the Visitors or by the Prior when he went at night.
There were only two sets of second-best altar vessels left, and a few
other comparatively worthless utensils for the use of the church and
kitchen. The great relics and the jewelled treasures had gone long
before. Chris had wondered a little at the house being disregarded for
so long; but the other monk had reminded him that such things as lead
and brass and bells were beyond the power of two men to move, and could
keep very well until other more pressing business had been despatched
elsewhere.

Mr. Morris gave him news of his father. It had not been the true fever
after all, and he would soon be here; in at any rate a week or two. As
regarded other news, there was no tidings of Mr. Ralph except that he
was very busy. Mistress Margaret was at home; no notice seemed to have
been taken of her when she had been turned out with the rest at the
dissolution of her convent.

It was very pleasant to see that familiar face about the cloister and
refectory; or now and again, when work was done, looking up from beyond
the screen as the monks came in by the sacristy door. Once or twice on
dark evenings when terror began to push through the rampart of the will
that Chris had raised up, it was reassuring too to know that Morris was
there, for he bore with him, as old servants do, an atmosphere of home
and security, and he carried himself as well with a wonderful
naturalness, as if the relief of beleaguered monks were as ordinary a
duty as the cleaning of plate.

March was half over now; and still no sign had come from the world
outside. There were no guests either to bring tidings, for the priory
was a marked place and it was well not to show or receive kindliness in
its regard.

Within, the tension of nerves grew acute. Chris was conscious of a
deepening exaltation, but it was backed by horror. He found himself now
smiling with an irrepressible internal joy, now twitching with
apprehension, starting at sudden noises, and terrified at loneliness.
Dom Anthony too grew graver still; and would take his arm sometimes and
walk with him, and tell him tales, and watch him with tender eyes. But
in him, as in the younger monk, the strain tightened every day.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were singing Compline together one evening with tired, overstrained
voices, for they had determined not to relax any of the chant until it
was necessary. Mr. Morris was behind them at a chair set beyond the
screen; and there were no others present in church.

The choir was perfectly dark (for they knew the office by heart) except
for a glimmer from the sacristy door where a lamp burned within to light
them to bed. Chris's thoughts had fled back to that summer evening long
ago when he had knelt far down in the nave and watched the serried line
of the black-hooded soldiers of God, and listened to the tramp of the
psalmody, and longed to be of their company. Now the gallant regiment
had dwindled to two, of which he was one, and the guest-master that had
received him and encouraged him, the other.

Dom Anthony was the officiant this evening, and had just sung lustily
out in the dark that God was about them with His shield, that they need
fear no nightly terror.

The movement flagged for a moment, for Chris was not attending; Mr.
Morris's voice began alone, _A sagitta volante_--and then stopped
abruptly as he realised that he was singing by himself; and
simultaneously came a sharp little crash from the dark altar that rose
up in the gloom in front.

A sort of sobbing breath broke from Chris at the sudden noise, and he
gripped his hands together.

In a moment Dom Anthony had taken up the verse.

_A sagitta volante_--"From the arrow that flieth by day, from the thing
that walketh in darkness--" Chris recovered himself; and the office
passed on.

As the two passed out together towards the door, Dom Anthony went
forward up the steps; and Chris waited, and watched him stoop and pass
his hands over the floor. Then he straightened himself, came down the
steps and went before Chris into the sacristy.

Und