or even thirty. Then there were Mason, Selborne, Sherbrook, and
half-a-dozen others. There was Brightman, too, as Archbishop: and now!
Then the Communists, too. Braithwaite is dead fifteen years. Certainly
he was big enough; but he was always speaking of the future, not of the
present; and tell me what big man they have had since then! And now
there's this new man, whom no one knows, who came forward in America a
few months ago, and whose name is in every one's mouth. Very well,
then!"

Percy knitted his forehead.

"I am not sure that I understand," he said.

Father Blackmore knocked his pipe out before answering.

"Well, this," he said, standing up. "I can't help thinking Felsenburgh
is going to do something. I don't know what; it may be for us or against
us. But he is a Mason, remember that.... Well, well; I dare say I'm an
old fool. Good-night."

"One moment, father," said Percy slowly. "Do you mean--? Good Lord! What
do you mean?" He stopped, looking at the other.

The old priest stared back under his bushy eyebrows; it seemed to Percy
as if he, too, were afraid of something in spite of his easy talk; but
he made no sign.

* * * * *

Percy stood perfectly still a moment when the door was shut. Then he
moved across to his _prie-dieu_.




CHAPTER III

I

Old Mrs. Brand and Mabel were seated at a window of the new Admiralty
Offices in Trafalgar Square to see Oliver deliver his speech on the
fiftieth anniversary of the passing of the Poor Laws Reform.

It was an inspiriting sight, this bright June morning, to see the crowds
gathering round Braithwaite's statue. That politician, dead fifteen
years before, was represented in his famous attitude, with arms
outstretched and down dropped, his head up and one foot slightly
advanced, and to-day was decked, as was becoming more and more usual on
such occasions, in his Masonic insignia. It was he who had given
immense impetus to that secret movement by his declaration in the House
that the key of future progress and brotherhood of nations was in the
hands of the Order. It was through this alone that the false unity of
the Church with its fantastic spiritual fraternity could be
counteracted. St. Paul had been right, he declared, in his desire to
break down the partition-walls between nations, and wrong only in his
exaltation of Jesus Christ. Thus he had preluded his speech on the Poor
Law question, pointing to the true charity that existed among Masons
apart from religious motive, and appealing to the famous benefactions on
the Continent; and in the enthusiasm of the Bill's success the Order had
received a great accession of members.

Old Mrs. Brand was in her best to-day, and looked out with considerable
excitement at the huge throng gathered to hear her son speak. A platform
was erected round the bronze statue at such a height that the statesman
appeared to be one of the speakers, though at a slightly higher
elevation, and this platform was hung with roses, surmounted by a
sounding-board, and set with a chair and table.

The whole square round about was paved with heads and resonant with
sound, the murmurs of thousands of voices, overpowered now and again by
the crash of brass and thunder of drums as the Benefit Societies and
democratic Guilds, each headed by a banner, deployed from North, South,
East and West, and converged towards the wide railed space about the
platform where room was reserved for them. The windows on every side
were packed with faces; tall stands were erected along the front of the
National Gallery and St. Martin's Church, garden-beds of colour behind
the mute, white statues that faced outwards round the square; from
Braithwaite in front, past the Victorians--John Davidson, John Burns,
and the rest--round to Hampden and de Montfort towards the north. The
old column was gone, with its lions. Nelson had not been found
advantageous to the _Entente Cordiale_, nor the lions to the new art;
and in their place stretched a wide pavement broken by slopes of steps
that led up to the National Gallery.

Overhead the roofs showed crowded friezes of heads against the blue
summer sky. Not less than one hundred thousand persons, it was estimated
in the evening papers, were collected within sight and sound of the
platform by noon.

As the clocks began to tell the hour, two figures appeared from behind
the statue and came forward, and, in an instant, the murmurs of talk
rose into cheering.

Old Lord Pemberton came first, a grey-haired, upright man, whose father
had been active in denouncing the House of which he was a member on the
occasion of its fall over seventy years ago, and his son had succeeded
him worthily. This man was now a member of the Government, and sat for
Manchester (3); and it was he who was to be chairman on this auspicious
occasion. Behind him came Oliver, bareheaded and spruce, and even at
that distance his mother and wife could see his brisk movement, his
sudden smile and nod as his name emerged from the storm of sound that
surged round the platform. Lord Pemberton came forward, lifted his hand
and made a signal; and in a moment the thin cheering died under 