those who guarded it, the great doors opened, and
a figure walked straight in, without looking to right or left.

He came on and up; and as he came the hush fell deeper. It was
impossible even to see his face; he was in a long travelling
cloak that fell to his feet; a travelling cap covered his head;
and about his throat and face was thrown a great white scarf,
such as the air-travellers often use. He came on, still without
looking to right or left, walking as if he had some kind of right
to be there, straight up to the witness-box, ascended the steps,
and stood there for an instant motionless.

Then he unwound his scarf, lifted his cap and dropped it beside
him, threw back his cloak with a single movement, and stood
there--a white figure from head to foot, white capped. . . .
There was a great sigh from the men on the platform; two or three
sprang to their feet, and sat down again as suddenly. Only the
President did not move. Then there fell an absolute silence.



(V)

"Eh well," said the Pope in delicate French; "I am
arrived in time then."

He looked round from side to side, smiling and peering--this
little commonplace-looking Frenchman, who had in his hand at this
period of the world's history an incalculably greater power than
any living being on earth had ever before wielded--Father of
Princes and Kings, Arbiter of the East, Father as well as
Sovereign Lord of considerably more than a thousand million
souls. He stood there, utterly alone with a single servant
waiting out there, half a mile away, at the flying-stage, in the
presence of the Council who in the name of the malcontents of the
human race had declared war on the world of which he was now all
but absolute master. No European nation could pass a law which he
had not the right to veto; not one monarch claimed to hold his
crown except at the hands of this man. And the East--even the
pagan East--had learned at last that the Vicar of Christ was the
Friend of Peace and Progress.

And he stood here, smiling and peering at the faces.

"I come as my own envoy," said the Pope presently, adjusting his
collar. "'The King said, "They will reverence My Son,"' so I am
come as the Vicar of that Son. You have killed my two messengers,
I hear. Why have you done that?"

There was no answer. From where the priest stood he could hear
laboured breathing on all sides, but not a man moved or spoke.

"Eh well then, I have come to offer you a last opportunity of
submitting peacefully. In less than an hour from now the armed
truce expires. After that we shall be compelled to use force. We
do not wish to use force; but society must now protect itself. I
do not speak to you in the name of Christ; that name means
nothing to you. So I speak in the name of society, which you
profess to love. Submit, gentlemen, and let me be the bearer of
the good news."

He spoke still in that absolutely quiet and conversational tone
in which he had begun. One hand rested lightly on the rail
before him; the other gently fingered the great cross on his
breast, naturally and easily, as the priest had seen him finger
it once before in his own palace. It was unthinkable that such a
weight in the world's history rested on so slight a foundation.
Yet for a few frozen moments no one else moved or spoke. It is
probable that the scene they witnessed seemed to them
unsubstantial and untrue.

Then, as the priest still stood, fascinated and overwhelmed, he
noticed a movement in the great chair before him. Very slowly
the President shifted his position, clasping his hands loosely
before him and bending forward a little. Then a dialogue began,
of which every word remained in the priest's mind as if written
there. It was in French throughout, the smooth delicacy of the
Pope's intonation contrasting strangely with the heavy German
accent of the other.

"You come as an envoy, sir. Do you then accept our terms?"

"I accept no terms. I offer them."

"And those?"

"Absolute and unconditional submission to myself."

"You received our notice as to the treatment of such envoys?"

(There was a rustle in the hall, but the other paid no attention.)

"But certainly."

"You come armed then--protected in some manner?"

The Pope smiled. He made a little opening gesture with his hands.

"I come as you see me; no more."

"Your armies are behind you?"

"The European air-fleets start from every quarter at midnight."

"With your consent?"

"But certainly."

"You understand that this means immeasurable bloodshed?"

"But certainly."

"You defend that?"

"My Master came bringing not peace, but a sword. But I am not
here to teach theology."

"But until midnight----"

"Until midnight I am in your hands."

Again the silence fell, deeper than ever. Monsignor took his eyes
off the Pope's face for an instant to glance round what he could
see of the circle. All were staring steadily, some half sunk down
in their seats, others stretched forward, clasping the outer
edges of the desks with strained hands, all staring at this quiet
white figure who faced them. He looked again at that face. If
there had been in it, not merely agitation or fear, but even
un