e right in asking for
profession. It appeared to him that he had found a life that was above
all others worthy of an immortal soul. The whole day's routine was
directed to one end, the performance of the _Opus Dei_, the uttering of
praises to Him who had made and was sustaining and would receive again
all things to Himself.

They rose at midnight for the night-office that the sleeping world might
not be wholly dumb to God; went to rest again; rose once more with the
world, and set about a yet sublimer worship. A stream of sacrifice
poured up to the Throne through the mellow summer morning, or the cold
winter darkness and gloom, from altar after altar in the great church.
Christopher remembered pleasantly a morning soon after the beginning of
his novitiate when he had been in the church as a set of priests came in
and began mass simultaneously; the mystical fancy suggested itself as
the hum of voices began that he was in a garden, warm and bright with
grace, and that bees were about him making honey--that fragrant
sweetness of which it had been said long ago that God should eat--and as
the tinkle of the Elevation sounded out here and there, it seemed to him
as a signal that the mysterious confection was done, and that every
altar sprang into perfume from those silver vessels set with jewel and
crystal.

When the first masses were over, there was a pause in which the _mixtum_
was taken--bread and wine or beer--standing in the refectory, after a
short prayer that the Giver of all good gifts might bless the food and
drink of His servants, and was closed again by another prayer said
privately for all benefactors. Meanwhile the bell was ringing for the
Lady mass, to remind the monks that the interval was only as it were a
parenthetical concession; and after Terce and the Lady Mass followed the
Chapter, in which faults were confessed and penances inflicted, and the
living instruments of God's work were examined and scoured for use. The
martyrology was read at this time, as well as some morning prayers, to
keep before the monks' minds the remembrance of those great vessels of
God's household called to so high an employment. It was then, too, that
other business of the house was done, and the seal affixed to any
necessary documents. Christopher had an opportunity once of examining
this seal when it had been given him to clean, and he looked with awe on
the figures of his four new patrons, St. Peter, St. Pancras, St. Paul
and Our Lady, set in niches above a cliff with the running water of the
Ouse beneath, and read the petition that ran round the circle--

"_Dulcis agonista tibi convertit domus ista Pancrati memorum precibus
memor esto tuorum._"

When the chapter was over, and the deaths of any brethren of the order
had been announced, and their souls prayed for, there was a pause for
recreation in the cloister and the finishing of further business before
they assembled again in time to go into church for the high mass, at
which the work and prayers of the day were gathered up and consecrated
in a supreme offering. Even the dinner that followed was a religious
ceremony; it began by a salutation of the Christ in glory that was on
the wall over the Prior's table, and then a long grace was sung before
they took their seats. The reader in the stone-pulpit on the south wall
of the refectory began his business on the sounding of a bell; and at a
second stroke there was a hum and clash of dishes from the kitchen end,
and the aproned servers entered in line bearing the dishes. Immediately
the meal was begun the drink destined for the poor at the gate was set
aside, and a little later a representative of them was brought into the
refectory to receive his portion; at the close again what was left over
was collected for charity; while the community after singing part of the
grace after meat went to finish it in the church.

Chris learned to love the quiet religious graciousness of the refectory.
The taking of food here was a consecrated action; it seemed a
sacramental thing. He loved the restraint and preciseness of it, ensured
by the solemn crucifix over the door with its pathetic inscription
"SITIO," the polished oak tables, solid and narrow, the shining pewter
dishes, the folded napkins, the cleanly-served plentiful food, to each
man his portion, the indescribable dignity of the prior's little table,
the bowing of the servers before it, the mellow grace ringing out in its
monotone that broke into minor thirds and octaves of melody, like a
grave line of woodwork on the panelling bursting into a stiff leaf or
two at its ends. There was a strange and wonderful romance it about on
early autumn evenings as the light died out behind the stained windows
and the reader's face glowed homely and strong between his two candles
on the pulpit. And surely these tales of saints, the extract from the
Rule, these portions of Scripture sung with long pauses and on a
monotone for fear that the reader's personality should obscure the
message of what he read--surely this was a better accompaniment to the
taking of food, in itself so gross a thing, than the feveri