lous; it was his first reconciliation of a
dying apostate, and it seemed to him a marvellous thing that a
man could come back after so long, and so simply--and an apostate
priest at that! He had heard this man's name before, and heard
his story. . . .

But he was intensely anxious to know what it was that had wrought
the miracle. The sister had told him that until this moment the
patient had steadily refused even the suggestion to send for a
priest. And then, when he had come, there had been no
preliminaries. He had simply slipped on his stole as the sister
went to the door, sat down by the bedside, heard the confession,
and undertaken one or two little acts of restitution on his
penitent's behalf.

He sat down again now and waited.

The man in the bed lay with closed eyes, and an extraordinary
peace rested over him. It was almost impossible to believe, so
white were the reflections of these clean walls, so white the
linen, that there was not a certain interior luminosity that
shone over his features. His chin and lips and jaws were covered
with a week's stubble, his eyelids were sunk in the sockets, and
the temples looked shrunken and hollow; yet there was a clearness
of skin, not yet dusky with the shadow of death, that appeared
almost supernatural to this young man who looked at him.

"The sign of the Prophet Jonas," said the dying priest
suddenly. . . . "Resurrection."

"Yes?"

"That is what I have seen," he said. . . "No; I know it was a
dream. . . But it is possible; the Church has the power within
her. It may happen some day; or it may not. But there is no
reason why it should not."

The other leant over him.

"My dear father----" he began. The older priest smiled.

"It is a long time since I heard that," he said. . . . "What's
your name, father?"

"Jervis . . . Father Jervis. I come from the Cathedral."

The eyes opened and looked at him curiously.

"Eh?"

"Father Jervis," said the young priest again.

"Any relations?"

"Some nephews--children. That's all of my name."

"Ah well! Perhaps-" (He broke off). "Did they tell me your name,
before I became unconscious?"

"It's very likely. I'm the visiting chaplain here."

"Ah well! Who knows---? But that doesn't matter. . . . Father, how
long have I to live?"

The young priest leaned forward and laid his hand on the other's arm.

"A few hours only, father," he said gently. . . . "You are not
afraid?"

"_Afraid?_"

His eyes closed, and he smiled naturally and easily.

"Well; listen. Lean closer. . . . No . . . call the sister in.
I want her to hear too."

"Sister----"

She came forward, her eyes heavy with sleep, but they were bright
too with an immense joy.

"Can you wait up a little longer, sister?" said Father Jervis.
"He wants us both to hear what he has to say."

"Why, of course."

She sat down on the other side of the bed.

Still the sounds from outside went on--the footsteps and the
voices and the bells. They were beginning to ring for the Easter
morning service in the Abbey; and still, within this room, was
this air of silence and remoteness.

"Now, listen carefully," said the dying man. . . .


F