g letter
from a monk who had been ejected from his monastery for repeated
misconduct, and who represented himself as starving; Ralph lifted this
to his nostrils and it smelt powerfully of spirits, and he laid it down
again, smiling to himself. A torrent of explanation from a schoolmaster
who had been reported for speaking against the sacrament of the altar,
calling the saints to witness that he was no follower of Fryth in such
detestable heresy. A dignified protest from a Justice of the Peace in
Kent who had been reproved by Cromwell, through Ralph's agency, for
acquitting a sturdy beggar, and who begged that he might in future deal
with a responsible person; and this Ralph laid aside, smiling again and
promising himself that he would have the pleasure of granting the
request. An offer, written in a clerkly hand, from a fellow who could
not sign his name but had appended a cross, to submit some important
evidence of a treasonable plot, on the consideration of secrecy and a
suitable reward.

A year ago such a budget would have given Ralph considerable pleasure,
and a sense of his own importance; but business had been growing on him
rapidly of late, as his master perceived his competence, and it gave him
no thrill to docket this one, write a refusal to that, a guarded answer
to another, and finally to open the well of his table and drop the
bundle in.

Then he turned round his chair, blew out one candle carefully, and set
to thinking about Master Thomas More.




CHAPTER V

MASTER MORE


It was not until nearly a month later that Ralph made an opportunity to
call upon Sir Thomas More. Cromwell had given him to understand that
there was no immediate reason for haste; his own time was tolerably
occupied, and he thought it as well not to make a show of over-great
hurry. He wrote to Sir Thomas, explaining that he wished to see him on a
matter connected with his brother Christopher, and received a courteous
reply begging him to come to dinner on the following Thursday, the
octave of the Assumption, as Sir Thomas thought it proper to add.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a wonderfully pleasant house, Ralph thought, as his wherry came
up to the foot of the garden stairs that led down from the lawn to the
river. It stood well back in its own grounds, divided from the river by
a wall with a wicket gate in it. There was a little grove of trees on
either side of it; a flock of pigeons were wheeling about the
bell-turret that rose into the clear blue sky, and from which came a
stroke or two, announcing the approach of dinner-time as he went up the
steps.

There was a figure lying on its face in the shadow by the house, as
Ralph came up the path, and a small dog, that seemed to be trying to dig
the head out from the hands in which it was buried, ceased his
excavations and set up a shrill barking. The figure rolled over, and sat
up; the pleasant brown face was all creased with laughter; small pieces
of grass were clinging to the long hair, and Ralph, to his amazement,
recognised the ex-Lord Chancellor of England.

"I beg your pardon, sir," said More, rising and shaking himself. "I had
no idea--you take me at a disadvantage; it is scarcely dignified"--and
he stopped, smiling and holding out one hand, while he stretched the
other deprecatingly, to quiet that insistent barking.

Ralph had a sensation of mingled contempt and sympathy as he took his
hand.

"I had the honour of seeing you once before, Master More," he said.

"Why, yes," said More, "and I hope I cut a better figure last time, but
Anubis would take no refusal. But I am ashamed, and beg you will not
speak of it to Mrs. More. She is putting on a new coif in your honour."

"I will be discreet," said Ralph, smiling.

They went indoors almost immediately, when Sir Thomas had flicked the
grass sufficiently off his gown to escape detection, and straight
through to the hall where the table was laid, and three or four girls
were waiting.

"Your mother is not here yet, I see," said Sir Thomas, when he had made
Ralph known to his daughters, and the young man had kissed them
deferentially, according to the proper etiquette--"I will tell you
somewhat--hush--" and he broke off again sharply as the door from the
stairs opened, and a stately lady, with a rather solemn and
uninteresting face, sailed in, her silk skirts rustling behind her, and
her fresh coif stiff and white on her head. A middle-aged man followed
her in, looking a little dejected, and made straight across to where the
ladies were standing with an eagerness that seemed to hint at a sense of
escape.

"Mrs. Alice," said Sir Thomas, "this is Mr. Ralph Torridon, of whom you
have heard me speak. I was fortunate enough to welcome him on the lawn
just now."

"I saw you, Mr. More," said his wife with dignity, as she took Ralph's
hand and said a word about the weather.

"Then I will confess," said Sir Thomas, smiling genially round, "I
welcomed Mr. Torridon with the back of my head, and with Anubis biting
my ears."

Ralph felt strangely drawn to this schoolboy kind of man, who romped
with dogs and lay on his stomach, and was