agging majestically on the grass, and her steady, sombre face
looking down on them all beneath half-closed languid eye-lids.

"He has never been near us again," said Ralph, "but he never fails to
ask after my mother's distressing illness when I meet him in town."

He was a little astonished at himself as he talked, for he was not
accustomed to take such pains to please, but he was conscious that
though he looked round at the faces, and addressed himself to More, he
was really watching for the effect on the girl who sat behind. He was
aware of every movement that she made; he knew when she tossed the ring
on the little sleeping brown body of the dog that had barked at him
earlier in the day, and set to work upon another. She slipped that on
her finger when she had done, and turned her hand this way and that, her
fingers bent back, a ruby catching the light as she did so, looking at
the effect of the green circle against the whiteness. But he never
looked at her again, except once when she asked him some question, and
then he looked her straight in her black eyes as he answered.

A bell sounded out at last again from the tower, and startled him. He
got up quickly.

"I am ashamed," he said smiling, "how dare I stay so long? It is your
kindness, Mr. More."

"Nay, nay," said Sir Thomas, rising too and stretching himself. "You
have helped us to lose another day in the pleasantest manner
possible--you must come again, Mr. Torridon."

He walked down with Ralph to the garden steps, and stood by him talking,
while the wherry that had been hailed from the other side made its way
across.

"Beatrice is like one of my own daughters," he said, "and I cannot give
her better praise than that. She is always here, and always as you saw
her today. I think she is one of the strongest spirits I know. What did
you think of her, Mr. Torridon?"

"She did not talk much," said Ralph.

"She talks when she has aught to say," went on More, "and otherwise is
silent. It is a good rule, sir; I would I observed it myself."

"Who is she?" asked Ralph.

"She is the daughter of a friend I had, and she lives just now with my
wife's sisters, Nan and Fan. She is often in town with one of them. I am
astonished you have not met her before."

The wherry slid up to the steps and the man in his great boots slipped
over the side to steady it.

"Now is the time to begin your philosophy," said More as Ralph stepped
in, "and a Socrates is ready. Talk it over, Mr. Torridon."




CHAPTER VI

RALPH'S INTERCESSION


Ralph was astonished to find how the thought of the tall girl he had met
at Sir Thomas More's house remained with him. He had reported the result
of his interview with More himself to his master; and Cromwell had
received it rather coldly. He had sniffed once or twice.

"That was not very well done, Mr. Torridon. I fear that you have
frightened him, and gained nothing by it."

Ralph stood silent.

"But I see you make no excuses," went on Cromwell, "so I will make them
for you. I daresay he was frightened already; and knew all about what
had passed between her and the Archbishop. You must try again, sir."

Ralph felt his heart stir with pleasure.

"I may say I have made friends with Mr. More, sir," he said. "I had good
fortune in the matter of a quotation, and he received me kindly. I can
go there again without excusing my presence, as often as you will."

Cromwell looked at him.

"There is not much to be gained now," he said, "but you can go if you
will; and you may perhaps pick up something here and there. The more
friends you make the better."

Ralph went away delighted; he had not wholly failed then in his master's
business, and he seemed to have set on foot a business of his own; and
he contemplated with some excitement his future visits to Chelsea.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had his first word with the King a couple of months later. He had
often, of course, seen him before, once or twice in the House of Lords,
formidable and frowning on his throne, his gross chin on his hand,
barking out a word or two to his subjects, or instructing them in
theology, for which indeed he was very competent; and several times in
processions, riding among his gentlemen on his great horse, splendid in
velvet and gems; and he had always wondered what it was that gave him
his power. It could not be mere despotism, he thought, or his burly
English nature; and it was not until he had seen him near at hand, and
come within range of his personality that he understood why it was that
men bore such things from him.

He was sent for one afternoon by Cromwell to bring a paper and was taken
up at once by a servant into the gallery where the minister and the King
were walking together. They were at the further end from that at which
he entered, and he stood, a little nervous at his heart, but with his
usual appearance of self-possession, watching the two great backs turned
to him, and waiting to be called.

They turned again in a moment, and Cromwell saw him and beckoned,
himself coming a few steps to meet him. The King waited, and Ralph was
aware of, rather than saw, that 