ping desk against the wall, and the table where the pigments and
brushes lay ready to the hand. The door opened on to the cloister itself
where the professed monks were at liberty to walk, and on the opposite
side stood the broad aumbries that held the library of the house; and it
was from the books here that Chris was allowed to draw ideas for his
designs. It was a great step in that life of minute details when now for
the first time he was permitted to follow his own views, instead of
merely filling in with colour outlines already drawn for him; and he
found his scheme for the decoration a serious temptation to distraction
during the office. As he stood among the professed monks, in his own
stall at last, he found his eyes wandering away to the capitals of the
round pillars, the stone foliage and fruit that burst out of the slender
shafts, the grim heads that strained forward in mitre and crown
overhead, and even the living faces of his brethren and superiors, clear
against the dark woodwork. When he bent his eyes resolutely on his book
he found his mind still intent on his more secular business; he mentally
corrected this awkward curve of the initial, substituted an oak spray
with acorns for that stiff monstrosity, and set my Lord Prior's face
grinning among griffins at the foot of the page where humour was more
readily admitted.

It was an immense joy when he closed his carrel-door, after his hour's
siesta in the dormitory, and sat down to his work. He was still warm
with sleep, and the piercing cold of the unwarmed cloister did not
affect him, but he set his feet on the sloping wooden footstool that
rested on the straw for fear they should get cold, and turned smiling to
his side-table.

There were all the precious things laid out; the crow's quills sharpened
to an almost invisible point for the finer lines, the two sets of
pencils, one of silver-point that left a faint grey line, and the other
of haematite for the burnishing of the gold, the badger and minever
brushes, the sponge and pumice-stone for erasures; the horns for black
and red ink lay with the scissors and rulers on the little upper shelf
of his desk. There were the pigments also there, which he had learnt to
grind and prepare, the crushed lapis lazuli first calcined by heat
according to the modern degenerate practice, with the cheap German blue
beside it, and the indigo beyond; the prasinum; the vermilion and red
lead ready mixed, and the rubrica beside it; the yellow orpiment, and,
most important of all, the white pigments, powdered chalk and egg
shells, lying by the biacca. In a separate compartment covered carefully
from chance draughts or dust lay the precious gold leaf, and a little
vessel of the inferior fluid gold used for narrow lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

His first business was to rule the thick red lines down the side of the
text, using a special metal pen for it; and then to begin to sketch in
his initials and decorations. For this latter part of the work he had
decided to follow the lines of Foucquet from a Book of the Hours that he
had taken out of its aumbry; a mass of delicate foliage and leaves, with
medallions set in it united by twisted thorn-branches twining upwards
through the broad border. These medallions on the first sheet he
purposed to fill with miniatures of the famous relics kept at Lewes, the
hanging sleeve of the Blessed Virgin in its crystal case, the
drinking-cup of Cana, the rod of Moses, and the Magdalene's box of
ointment. In the later pages which would be less elaborate he would
introduce the other relics, and allow his humour free play in designing
for the scrolls at the foot tiny portraits of his brethren; the Prior
should be in a mitre and have the legs and tail of a lion, the
novice-master, with a fox's brush emerging from his flying cowl, should
be running from a hound who carried a discipline in his near paw. But
there was time yet to think of these things; it would be weeks before
that page could be reached, and meanwhile there was the foliage to be
done, and the rose leaf that lay on his desk to be copied minutely from
a hundred angles.

       *       *       *       *       *

His distractions at mass and office were worse than ever now that the
great work was begun, and week after week in confession there was the
same tale. The mere process was so absorbing, apart from the joy of
creation and design. More than once he woke from a sweating nightmare in
the long dormitory, believing that he had laid on gold-leaf without
first painting the surface with the necessary mordant, or had run his
stilus through his most delicate miniature. But he made extraordinary
progress in the art; and the Prior more than once stepped into his
carrel and looked over his shoulder, watching the slender fingers with
the bone pen between them polishing the gold till it shone like a
mirror, or the steady lead pencil moving over the white page in
faultless curve. Then he would pat him on the shoulder, and go out in
approving silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris was supremely content that he had don