ell's
other agents; and, as she thought of it, her tortured heart asked again
and again whether after all she had done right.

She went over the whole question, as she sat there, looking out over the
river towards Lambeth, fingering the shutter, glancing now and again at
the bent old figure of her aunt in her tall chair, and listening to the
rip of the needle through the silk. Could she have done otherwise? Was
her interference and advice after all but a piece of mad chivalry,
unnecessary and unpractical?

And yet she knew that she would do it again, if the same circumstances
arose. It would be impossible to do otherwise. Reason was against it;
Mr. Herries had hinted as much with a quick lifting of his bushy
eyebrows as she had told him the story. It would have made no difference
to Cromwell--ah! but she had not done it for that; it was for the sake
of Ralph himself; that he might not lose the one opportunity that came
to him of making a movement back towards the honour he had forfeited.

But it was no less torture to think of it all, as she sat here. She had
faced the question before; but now the misery she had watched during
these last three weeks had driven it home. Day by day she had seen the
old father's face grow lined and haggard as the suspense gnawed at his
heart; she had watched him at meals--had seen him sit in bewildered
grief, striving for self-control and hope--had seen him, as the light
faded in the parlour upstairs, sink deeper into himself; his eyes hidden
by his hand, and his grey pointed beard twitching at the trembling of
his mouth. Once or twice she had met his eyes fixed on hers, in a
questioning stare, and had known what was in his heart--a simple,
unreproachful wonder at the strange events that had made her so
intimately responsible for his son's happiness.

She thought of Margaret too, as she sat there; of the poor girl who had
so rested on her, believed in her, loved her. There she was now at
Overfield, living in a nightmare of suspense, watching so eagerly for
the scanty letters, disappointed every time of the good news for which
she hoped....

       *       *       *       *       *

The burden was an intolerable one. Beatrice was scarcely conscious of
where she sat or for what she waited. She was living over again every
detail of her relations with Ralph. She remembered how she had seen him
at first at Chelsea; how he had come out with Master More from the door
of the New Building and across the grass. She had been twisting a
grass-ring then as she listened to the talk, and had tossed it on to the
dog's back. Then, day by day she had met him; he had come at all hours;
and she had watched him, for she thought she had found a man. She
remembered how her interest had deepened; how suddenly her heart had
leapt that evening when she came into the hall and found him sitting in
the dark. Then, step by step, the friendship had grown till it had
revealed its radiant face at the bitterness of Chris's words in the
house at Westminster. Then her life had become magical; all the world
cried "Ralph" to her; the trumpets she heard sounded to his praise; the
sunsets had shone for him and her. Then came the news of the Visitors'
work; and her heart had begun to question her insistently; the questions
had become affirmation; and in one passionate hour she had gone to him,
scourged him with her tongue, and left him. She had seen him again once
or twice in the years that followed; had watched him from a window hung
with tapestries in Cheapside, as he rode down beside the King; and had
not dared to ask herself what her heart so longed to tell her. Then had
come the mother's question; and the falling of the veils.

Then he had called her; she never doubted that; as she sat alone in her
room one evening. It had come, thin and piteous;--"Beatrice, Beatrice."
He needed her, and she had gone, and meddled with his life once more.

And he lay in the Tower....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Beatrice, my child."

She turned from the window, her eyes blind with tears; and in a moment
was kneeling at her aunt's side, her face buried in her lap, and felt
those kindly old hands passing over her hair. She heard a murmur over
her head, but scarcely caught a word. There was but one thing she
needed, and that--

Then she knelt suddenly upright listening, and the caressing hand was
still.

"Beatrice, my dear, Beatrice."

       *       *       *       *       *

There were footsteps on the stairs outside, eager and urgent. The girl
rose to her feet, and stood there, swaying a little with a restrained
expectation.

Then the door was open, and Chris was there, flushed and radiant, with
the level evening light full on his face.

"It is all well," he cried, "my Lord will take us to the King."




CHAPTER X

PLACENTIA


The river-front of Greenwich House was a magnificent sight as the four
men came up to it one morning nearly three weeks later. The long
two-storied row of brick buildings which Henry had named Placentia, with
their lines of windows broken by the two clusters of slender towers, and
porticos beneath, were fronte