in silence; and then ordered the courier
to wait below. When the servant had left the room, he read it through a
third time.

It was not long; but it was pregnant.

"I entreat you, sir," wrote the girl, "for the love of Jesu, to let us
know if anything is designed against our friend. Three weeks ago you
told me it was not so; I pray God that may be true still. I know that
you would not lift a finger against him yourself--" (Ralph glanced at
his own neat little list at these words, and bit his pen)--"but I wish
you to do what you can for him and for us all." Then followed an
erasure.

Ralph carried the paper to the window, flattened it against the panes
and read clearly the words, "If my" under the scratching lines, and
smiled to himself as he guessed what the sentence was that she was
beginning.

Then the letter continued.

"I hear on good authority that there is something against him. He will
not escape; and will do nothing on such hearsay, but only tells us to
trust God, and laughs at us all. Good Mr. Torridon, do what you can.
Your loving friend, B.A."

Ralph went back from the window where he was still standing, and sat
down again, bending his head into his hands. He had no sort of scruples
against lying as such or betraying Mr. More's private conversation; his
whole training was directed against such foolishness, and he had learnt
at last from Cromwell's incessant precept and example that the good of
the State over-rode all private interests. But he had a disinclination
to lie to Beatrice; and he felt simply unable to lose her friendship by
telling her the truth.

As he sat there perfectly still, the servant peeped in once softly to
see if the answer was ready, and noiselessly withdrew. Ralph did not
stir; but still sat on, pressing his eyeballs till they ached and fiery
rings twisted before him in the darkness. Then he abruptly sat up,
blinked a moment or two, took up a pen, bit it again, and laid it down
and sat eyeing the two papers that lay side by side on his desk.

He took up his own list, and read it through. After all, it was very
insignificant, and contained no more than minute scraps of conversation
that Sir Thomas More had let drop. He had called Queen Katharine "poor
woman" three or four times; had expressed a reverence for the Pope of
Rome half a dozen times, and had once called him the Vicar of Christ. He
had been silent when someone had mentioned Anne Boleyn's name; he had
praised the Carthusians and the Religious Life generally, at some
length.

They were the kind of remarks that might mean nothing or a great deal;
they were consistent with loyalty; they were not inconsistent with
treason; in fact they were exactly the kind of material out of which
serious accusations might be manufactured by a skilled hand, though as
they stood they proved nothing.

A further consideration to Ralph was his duty to Cromwell; he scarcely
felt it seemly to lie whole-heartedly to him; and on the other hand he
felt now simply unable to lie to Beatrice. There was only one way out of
it,--to prevaricate to them both.

He took up his own paper, glanced at it once more; and then with a
slightly dramatic gesture tore it across and across, and threw it on the
ground. Then he took up his pen and wrote to Beatrice.

"I have only had access to one paper against our friend--that I have
destroyed, though I do not know what Master Cromwell will say. But I
tell you this to show at what a price I value your friendship.

"Of course our friend is threatened. Who is not in these days? But I
swear to you that I do not know what is the design."

He added a word or two more for politeness' sake, prayed that "God might
have her in His keeping," and signed himself as she had done, her
"loving friend."

Then he dried the ink with his pounce box, sealed the letter with great
care, and took it down to the courier himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

He faced Cromwell in the evening with a good deal of terror, but with
great adroitness; swore positively that More had said nothing actually
treasonable, and had found, on putting pen to paper, that the
accusations were flimsier than he thought.

"But it is your business to see that they be not so," stormed his
master. Ralph paused a moment respectfully.

"I cannot make a purse out of a sow's ear, sir. I must have at least
some sort of silk."

When Cromwell had ceased to walk up and down, Ralph pointed out with
considerable shrewdness that he did not suppose that his evidence was
going to form the main ground of the attack on More; and that it would
merely weaken the position to bring such feeble arguments to bear.

"Why he would tear them to shreds, sir, in five minutes; he would make
out that they were our principal grounds--he is a skilled lawyer. If I
may dare to say so, Master Cromwell, let your words against Mr. More be
few and choice."

This was bolder speaking than he had ever ventured on before; but
Cromwell was in a good humour. The peers had proved tractable and had
agreed to pass the attainder against Elizabeth Barton without any more
talk of justice and the accused's right of 