h stroke went home, and yet he felt no pain or shame.

She was going now; a picture stirred on the wall by the fire as the wind
rushed in through the open street door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the door closed.





THE FALL OF LEWES




CHAPTER I

INTERNAL DISSENSION


The peace was gone from Lewes Priory. A wave had broken in through the
high wall from the world outside with the coming of the Visitors, and
had left wreckage behind, and swept out security as it went. The monks
knew now that their old privileges were gone with the treasures that
Layton had taken with him, and that although the wave had recoiled, it
would return again and sweep them all away.

Upon none of them had the blow fallen more fiercely than on Chris; he
had tried to find peace, and instead was in the midst of storm. The high
barriers had gone, and with them the security of his own soul, and the
world that he thought he had left was grinning at the breach.

It was piteous to him to see the Prior--that delicate, quiet prelate who
had held himself aloof in his dignities--now humbled by the shame of his
exposure in the chapter-house. The courage that Bishop Fisher had
restored to him in some measure was gone again; and it was miserable to
look at that white downcast face in the church and refectory, and to
recognise that all self-respect was gone. After his return from his
appearance before Cromwell he was more wretched than ever; it was known
that he had been sent back in contemptuous disgrace; but it was not
known how much he had promised in his terror for life.

The house had lost too some half-dozen of its inmates. Two had
petitioned for release; three professed monks had been dismissed, and a
recent novice had been sent back to his home. Their places in the
stately choir were empty, and eloquent with warning; and in their stead
was a fantastic secular priest, appointed by the Visitors' authority,
who seldom said mass, and never attended choir; but was regular in the
refectory, and the chapter-house where he thundered St. Paul's epistles
at the monks, and commentaries of his own, in the hopes of turning them
from papistry to a purer faith.

The news from outside echoed their own misery. Week after week the tales
poured in, of young and old dismissed back to the world whose ways they
had forgotten, of the rape of treasures priceless not only for their
intrinsic worth but for the love that had given and consecrated them
through years of devout service. There was not a house that had not lost
something; the King himself had sanctioned the work by taking precious
horns and a jewelled cross from Winchester. And worse than all that had
gone was the terror of what was yet to come. The world, which had been
creeping nearer, pausing and creeping on again, had at last passed the
boundaries and leapt to sacrilege.

It was this terror that poisoned life. The sacristan who polished the
jewels that were left, handled them doubtfully now; the monk who
superintended the farm sickened as he made his plans for another year;
the scribe who sat in the carrel lost enthusiasm for his work; for the
jewels in a few months might be on royal fingers, the beasts in
strangers' sheds, and the illuminated leaves blowing over the cobbled
court, or wrapped round grocers' stores.

Dom Anthony preached a sermon on patience one day in Christmastide,
telling his fellows that a man's life, and still less a monk's,
consisted not in the abundance of things that he possessed; and that
corporate, as well as individual, poverty, had been the ideal of the
monastic houses in earlier days. He was no great preacher, but the
people loved to hear his homely remarks, and there was a murmur of
sympathy as he pointed with a clumsy gesture to the lighted Crib that
had been erected at the foot of one of the great pillars in the nave.

"Our Lady wore no cloth of gold," he said, "nor Saint Joseph a precious
mitre; and the blessed Redeemer Himself who made all things had but
straw to His bed. And if our new cope is gone, we can make our
processions in the old one, and please God no less. Nay, we may please
Him more perhaps, for He knows that it is by no will of ours that we do
so."

But there had been a dismal scene at the chapter next morning. The Prior
had made them a speech, with a passionate white face and hands that
shook, and declared that the sermon would be their ruin yet if the
King's Grace heard of it.

"There was a fellow that went out half-way through," he cried in panic,
"how do we know whether he is not talking with his Grace even now? I
will not have such sermons; and you shall be my witnesses that I said
so."

The monks eyed one another miserably. How could they prosper under such
a prior as this?

But worse was to follow, though it did not directly affect this house.
The bill, so long threatened, dissolving the smaller houses, was passed
in February by a Parliament carefully packed to carry out the King's
wishes, and from which the spiritual peers were excluded by his
"permission to them to absent themselves." Lewes Priory, of course,
exceeded the limit of revenue un