th. Below, his
chin swelled down fold after fold into his collar, and the cheeks were
wide and heavy on either side.

It was the most powerful face that Chris had ever seen or dreamed
of--the animal brooded in every line and curve of it--it would have
been brutish but for the steady pale stare of the eyes and the tight
little lips. It fascinated and terrified him.

The flourish ended, the roar of the rowlocks sounded out again like the
beating of a furious heart; the King turned his head again and said
something, and the boat swept past.

Chris found that he had started to his feet, and sat down again,
breathing quickly and heavily, with a kind of indignant loathing that
was new to him.

This then was the master of England, the heart of all their
troubles--that gorgeous fat man with the broad pulpy face, in his
crimson and jewels; and that was his concubine who sat demure beside
him, with her white folded ringed hands on her lap, her beautiful eyes
cast down, and her lord's hot breath in her ear! It was these that were
purifying the Church of God of such men as the Cardinal-bishop in the
Tower, and the witty holy lawyer! It was by the will of such as these
that the heads of the Carthusian Fathers, bound brow and chin with
linen, stared up and down with dead eyes from the pikes overhead.

He sat panting and unseeing as the other boats swept past, full of the
King's friends all going down to Greenwich.

There broke out a roar from the Tower behind, and he started and turned
round to see the white smoke eddying up from the edge of the wall beside
the Traitor's gate; a shrill cheer or two, far away and thin, sounded
from the figures on the wharf and the boatmen about the stairs.

The wherryman sat down again and put on his cap.

"Body of God!" he said, "there was but just time."

And he began to pull again with his single oar towards the shore.

Chris looked at the Prior a moment and down again. He was sitting with
tight lips, and hands clasped in his lap, and his eyes were wild and
piteous.

They borrowed an oar presently from another boat, and went on up towards
Southwark. The wherryman pawed once to spit on his hands as they neared
the rush of the current below the bridge.

"That was Master Cromwell with His Grace," he said.

Chris looked at him questioningly.

"Him with the gold collar," he added, "and that was Audley by him."

The Prior had glanced at Chris as Cromwell's name was mentioned; but
said nothing for the present. And Chris himself was lost again in
musing. That was Ralph's master then, the King's right-hand man, feared
next in England after the King himself--and Chancellor Audley, too, and
Anne, all in one wooden boat. How easy for God to put out His hand and
finish them! And then he was ashamed at his own thought, so faithless
and timid; and he remembered Fisher once more and his gallant spirit in
that broken body.

A minute or two later they had landed at the stairs, and were making
their way up to the hostel.

The Prior put out his hand and checked him as he stepped ahead to knock.

"Wait," he said. "Do you know who signed the order we used at the
Tower?"

Chris shook his head.

"Master Cromwell," said the Prior. "And do you know by whose hand it
came?"

Chris stared in astonishment.

"It was by your brother," he said.




CHAPTER XIV

THE SACRED PURPLE


It was a bright morning a few days later when the Bishop of Rochester
suffered on Tower Hill.

Chris was there early, and took up his position at the outskirts of the
little crowd, facing towards the Tower itself; and for a couple of hours
watched the shadows creep round the piles of masonry, and the light
deepen and mellow between him and the great mass of the White Tower a
few hundred yards away. There was a large crowd there a good while
before nine o'clock, and Chris found himself at the hour no longer on
the outskirts but in the centre of the people.

He had served the Prior's mass at six o'clock, and had obtained leave
from him the night before to be present at the execution; but the Prior
himself had given no suggestion of coming. Chris had begun to see that
his superior was going through a conflict, and that he wished to spare
himself any further motives of terror; he began too to understand that
the visit to the bishop had had the effect of strengthening the Prior's
courage, whatever had been the intention on the part of the authorities
in allowing him to go. He was still wondering why Ralph had lent himself
to the scheme; but had not dared to press his superior further.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bishop had made a magnificent speech at his trial, and had
protested with an extraordinary pathos, that called out a demonstration
from the crowd in court, against Master Rich's betrayal of his
confidence. Under promise of the King that nothing that he said to his
friend should be used against him, the bishop had shown his mind in a
private conversation on the subject of the Supremacy Act, and now this
had been brought against him by Rich himself at the trial.

"Seeing it pleased the King's Highness," said the bishop, "to send to me
thus