x-Royalties of
Europe, all the most frantic religionists from the inhabited world who
had taken up their abode in the "Holy City" were gone at a stroke, a
recrudescence of the superstition was scarcely to be feared elsewhere.
Yet care must even now be taken against any relenting. Catholics (if any
were left bold enough to attempt it) must no longer be allowed to take
any kind of part in the life of any civilised country. So far as
messages had come in from other countries, there was but one chorus of
approval at what had been done.

A few papers regretted the incident, or rather the spirit which had lain
behind it. It was not seemly, they said, that Humanitarians should have
recourse to violence; yet not one pretended that anything could be felt
but thanksgiving for the general result. Ireland, too, must be brought
into line; they must not dally any longer.

* * * * *

It was now brightening slowly towards dawn, and beyond the river through
the faint wintry haze a crimson streak or two began to burn. But all was
surprisingly quiet, for this crowd, tired out with an all-night watch,
chilled by the bitter cold, and intent on what lay before them, had no
energy left for useless effort. Only from packed square and street and
lane went up a deep, steady murmur like the sound of the sea a mile
away, broken now and again by the hoot and clang of a motor and the rush
of its passage as it tore eastwards round the circle through Broad
Sanctuary and vanished citywards. And the light broadened and the
electric globes sickened and paled, and the haze began to clear a
little, showing, not the fresh blue that had been hoped for from the
cold of the night, but a high, colourless vault of cloud, washed with
grey and faint rose-colour, as the sun came up, a ruddy copper disc,
beyond the river.

* * * * *

At nine o'clock the excitement rose a degree higher. The police between
Whitehall and the Abbey, looking from their high platforms strung along
the route, whence they kept watch and controlled the wire palisadings,
showed a certain activity, and a minute later a police-car whirled
through the square between the palings, and vanished round the Abbey
towers. The crowd murmured and shuffled and began to expect, and a cheer
was raised when a moment later four more cars appeared, bearing the
Government insignia, and disappeared in the same direction. These were
the officials, they said, going to Dean's Yard, where the procession
would assemble.

At about a quarter to ten the crowd at the west end of Victoria Street
began to raise its voice in a song, and by the time that was over, and
the bells had burst out from the Abbey towers, a rumour had somehow made
its entrance that Felsenburgh was to be present at the ceremony. There
was no assignable reason for this, neither then nor afterwards; in fact,
the _Evening Star_ declared that it was one more instance of the
astonishing instinct of human beings _en masse_; for it was not until an
hour later that even the Government were made aware of the facts. Yet
the truth remained that at half-past ten one continuous roar went up,
drowning even the brazen clamour of the bells, reaching round to
Whitehall and the crowded pavements of Westminster Bridge, demanding
Julian Felsenburgh. Yet there had been absolutely no news of the
President of Europe for the last fortnight, beyond an entirely
unsupported report that he was somewhere in the East.

And all the while the motors poured from all directions towards the
Abbey and disappeared under the arch into Dean's Yard, bearing those
fortunate persons whose tickets actually admitted them to the church
itself. Cheers ran and rippled along the lines as the great men were
recognised--Lord Pemberton, Oliver Brand and his wife, Mr. Caldecott,
Maxwell, Snowford, with the European delegates--even melancholy-faced
Mr. Francis himself, the Government _ceremoniarius_, received a
greeting. But by a quarter to eleven, when the pealing bells paused, the
stream had stopped, the barriers issued out to stop the roads, the wire
palisadings vanished, and the crowd for an instant, ceasing its roaring,
sighed with relief at the relaxed pressure, and surged out into the
roadways. Then once more the roaring began for Julian Felsenburgh.

The sun was now high, still a copper disc, above the Victoria Tower, but
paler than an hour ago; the whiteness of the Abbey, the heavy greys of
Parliament House, the ten thousand tints of house-roofs, heads,
streamers, placards began to disclose themselves.

A single bell tolled five minutes to the hour, and the moments slipped
by, until once more the bell stopped, and to the ears of those within
hearing of the great west doors came the first blare of the huge organ,
reinforced by trumpets. And then, as sudden and profound as the hush of
death, there fell an enormous silence.




II

As the five-minutes bell began, sounding like a continuous wind-note in
the great vaults overhead, solemn and persistent, Mabel drew a long
breath and leaned back in her seat from the rigid position in which for
the last half-hour she had been staring out at the wonderful s