d how do you do it, Father Franklin?"

Percy stood up abruptly.

"This is no good, madam," he said. "What is the use of these questions?"

The girl looked at him in open-eyed astonishment, still with her hand on
her husband's knee.

"The use, Father Franklin! Why, we want to know. There is no church law
against your telling us, is there?"

Percy hesitated again. He did not understand in the least what she was
after. Then he saw that he would give them an advantage if he lost his
head at all: so he sat down again.

"Certainly not. I will tell you if you wish to know. I heard Mrs.
Brand's confession, and gave her absolution."

"Oh! yes; and that does it, then? And what next?"

"She ought to receive Holy Communion, and anointing, if she is in danger
of death."

Oliver twitched suddenly.

"Christ!" he said softly.

"Oliver!" cried the girl entreatingly. "Please leave this to me. It is
much better so.--And then, I suppose, Father Franklin, you want to give
those other things to my mother, too?"

"They are not absolutely necessary," said the priest, feeling, he did
not know why, that he was somehow playing a losing game.

"Oh! they are not necessary? But you would like to?"

"I shall do so if possible. But I have done what is necessary."

It required all his will to keep quiet. He was as a man who had armed
himself in steel, only to find that his enemy was in the form of a
subtle vapour. He simply had not an idea what to do next. He would have
given anything for the man to have risen and flown at his throat, for
this girl was too much for them both.

"Yes," she said softly. "Well, it is hardly to be expected that my
husband should give you leave to come here again. But I am very glad
that you have done what you think necessary. No doubt it will be a
satisfaction to you, Father Franklin, and to the poor old thing
upstairs, too. While we--- _we_--" she pressed her husband's knee--"we
do not mind at all. Oh!--but there is one thing more."

"If you please," said Percy, wondering what on earth was coming.

"You Christians--forgive me if I say anything rude--but, you know, you
Christians have a reputation for counting heads, and making the most of
converts. We shall be so much obliged, Father Franklin, if you will
give us your word not to advertise this--this incident. It would
distress my husband, and give him a great deal of trouble."

"Mrs. Brand---" began the priest.

"One moment.... You see, we have not treated you badly. There has been
no violence. We will promise not to make scenes with my mother. Will you
promise us that?"

Percy had had time to consider, and he answered instantly.

"Certainly, I will promise that."

Mabel sighed contentedly.

"Well, that is all right. We are so much obliged.... And I think we may
say this, that perhaps after consideration my husband may see his way to
letting you come here again to do Communion and--and the other thing---"

Again that spasm shook the man beside her.

"Well, we will see about that. At any rate, we know your address, and
can let you know.... By the way, Father Franklin, are you going back to
Westminster to-night?"

He bowed.

"Ah! I hope you will get through. You will find London very much
excited. Perhaps you heard---"

"Felsenburgh?" said Percy.

"Yes. Julian Felsenburgh," said the girl softly, again with that strange
excitement suddenly alight in her eyes. "Julian Felsenburgh," she
repeated. "He is there, you know. He will stay in England for the
present."

Again Percy was conscious of that slight touch of fear at the mention of
that name.

"I understand there is to be peace," he said.

The girl rose and her husband with her.

"Yes," she said, almost compassionately, "there is to be peace. Peace at
last." (She moved half a step towards him, and her face glowed like a
rose of fire. Her hand rose a little.) "Go back to London, Father
Franklin, and use your eyes. You will see him, I dare say, and you will
see more besides." (Her voice began to vibrate.) "And you will
understand, perhaps, why we have treated you like this--why we are no
longer afraid of you--why we are willing that my mother should do its
she pleases. Oh! you will understand, Father Franklin if not to-night,
to-morrow; or if not to-morrow, at least in a very short time."

"Mabel!" cried her husband.

The girl wheeled, and threw her arms round him, and kissed him on the
mouth.

"Oh! I am not ashamed, Oliver, my dear. Let him go and see for himself.
Good-night, Father Franklin."

As he went towards the door, hearing the ping of the bell that some one
touched in the room behind him, he turned once more, dazed and
bewildered; and there were the two, husband and wife, standing in the
soft, sunny light, as if transfigured. The girl had her arm round the
man's shoulder, and stood upright and radiant as a pillar of fire; and
even on the man's face there was no anger now--nothing but an almost
supernatural pride and confidence. They were both smiling.

Then Percy passed out into the soft, summer night.



II

Percy understood nothing except that he was afraid, as he sat in the
crowded car that whirled him up to London. He 