sk sentences were delivered from
those smiling lips. He would see too how their hands met as they sat
together; how Margaret would sit distracted and hungering for attention,
eyeing the ceiling, the carpet, her embroidery; and how her eyes would
leap to meet a glance, and her face flush up, as Beatrice throw her a
soft word or look.

And it was the right love, too, to the monk's eyes; not a rival flame,
but fuel for divine ardour. Margaret spent longer, not shorter, time at
her prayers; was more, not less, devout at mass and communion; and her
whole sore soul became sensitive and alive again. The winter had passed
for her; the time of the singing-birds was come.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was fascinated by the other's gallant brilliance. Religion for the
nun had up to the present appeared a delicate thing that grew in the
shadow or in the warm shelter of the cloister; now it blossomed out in
Beatrice as a hardy bright plant that tossed its leaves in the wind and
exulted in sun and cold. Yet it had its evening tendernesses too, its
subtle fragrance when the breeze fell, its sweet colours and
outlines--Beatrice too could pray; and Margaret's spiritual instinct, as
she knelt by her at the altar-rail or glanced at the other's face as she
came down fresh with absolution from the chair in the sanctuary where
the chaplain sat, detected a glow of faith at least as warm as her own.

She was astonished too at her friend's gaiety; for she had expected, so
far as her knowledge of human souls led to expect anything, a quiet
convalescent spirit, recovering but slowly from the tragedy through
which Margaret knew she had passed. It seemed to her at first as if
Beatrice must be almost heartless, so little did she flinch when Lady
Torridon darted Ralph's name at her, or Master More's, or flicked her
suddenly where the wound ought to be; and it was not until the guest had
been a month in the house that the nun understood.

They were together one evening in Margaret's own white little room above
the oak parlour. Beatrice was sitting before the fire with her arms
clasped behind her head, waiting till the other had finished her office,
and looking round pleased in her heart, at the walls that told their
tale so plainly. It was almost exactly like a cell. A low oak bed,
red-blanketted, stood under the sloping roof, a prie-dieu beside it, and
a cheap little French image of St. Scholastica over it. There was a
table, with a sheet of white paper, a little ink-horn and two quills
primly side by side upon it; and at the back stood a couple of small
bound volumes in which the nun was accumulating little by little private
devotions that appealed to her. A pair of beads hung on a nail by the
window over which was drawn an old red curtain; two brass candlesticks
with a cross between them stood over the hearth, giving it a faint
resemblance to an altar. The boards were bare except for a strip of
matting by the bed; and the whole room, walls, floor, ceiling and
furniture were speckless and precise.

Margaret made the sign of the cross, closed her book, and smiled at
Beatrice.

"You dear child!" she answered.

Margaret's face shone with pleasure; and she put out her hand softly to
the other's knee, and laid it there.

"Talk to me," said the nun.

"Well?" said Beatrice.

"Tell me about your life in London. You never have yet, you know."

An odd look passed over the others face, and she dropped her eyes and
laid her hands together in her lap.

"Oh, Meg," she said, "I should love to tell you if I could. What would
you like to hear?"

The nun looked at her wondering.

"Why--everything," she said.

"Shall I tell you of Chelsea and Master More?"

Margaret nodded, still looking at her; and Beatrice began.

It was an extraordinary experience for the nun to sit there and hear
that wonderful tale poured out. Beatrice for the first time threw open
her defences--those protections of the sensitive inner life that she had
raised by sheer will--and showed her heart. She told her first of her
life in the country before she had known anything of the world; of her
father's friendship with More when she was still a child, and of his
death when she was about sixteen. She had had money of her own, and had
come up to live with Mrs. More's sisters; and so had gradually slipped
into intimacy at Chelsea. Then she described the life there--the ordered
beauty of it all--and the marvellous soul that was its centre and sun.
She told her of More's humour, his unfailing gaiety, his sweet cynicism
that shot through his talk, his tender affections, and above all--for
she knew this would most interest the nun--his deep and resolute
devotion to God. She described how he had at one time lived at the
Charterhouse, and had seemed to regret, before the end of his life, that
he had not become a Carthusian; she told her of the precious parcel that
had been sent from the Tower to Chelsea the day before his death, and
how she had helped Margaret Roper to unfasten it and disclose the
hair-shirt that he had worn secretly for years, and which now he had
sent back for fear that it shou