nd
his own presence there might do something to keep the brutality within
limits.

       *       *       *       *       *

And as for Beatrice--well, Beatrice did not yet understand. If she
understood all as he did, she would sympathise, for she was strong too.
Besides--he had held her in his arms just now, and he knew that love was
king.

But he sat for ten minutes more in silence, staring with unseeing eyes
at the huddled roofs opposite and the clear sky over them; and the point
of the quill in his fingers was split and cracked when Mr. Morris looked
in to see if his master wanted anything.




CHAPTER II

THE BEGINNING OF THE VISITATION


It was on a wet foggy morning in October that Ralph set out with Mr.
Morris and a couple more servants to join Dr. Layton in the Sussex
visitation. He rode alone in front; and considered as he went.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Visitation itself, Cromwell had told him almost explicitly, was in
pursuance of the King's policy to get the Religious Houses, which were
considered to be the strongholds of the papal power in England, under
the authority of the Crown; and also to obtain from them reinforcements
of the royal funds which were running sorely low. The crops were most
disappointing this year, and the King's tenants were wholly unable to
pay their rents; and it had been thought wiser to make up the deficit
from ecclesiastical wealth rather than to exasperate the Commons by a
direct call upon their resources.

So far, he knew very well, the attempt to get the Religious Houses into
the King's power had only partially succeeded. Bishop Fisher's influence
had availed to stave off the fulfilment of the royal intentions up to
the present; and the oath of supremacy, in which to a large extent the
key of the situation lay, had been by no means universally accepted.
Now, however, the scheme was to be pushed forward; and as a preparation
for it, it was proposed to visit every monastery and convent in the
kingdom, and to render account first of the temporal wealth of each,
and then of the submissiveness of its inmates; and, as Cromwell had
hinted to Ralph, anything that could damage the character of the
Religious would not be unacceptable evidence.

Ralph was aware that the scheme in which he was engaged was supported in
two ways; first, by the suspension of episcopal authority during the
course of the visitation, and secondly by the vast powers committed to
the visitors. In one of the saddle-bags strapped on to Mr. Morris's
horse was a sheaf of papers, containing eighty-six articles of enquiry,
and twenty-five injunctions, as well as certificates from the King
endowing Ralph with what was practically papal jurisdiction. He was
authorised to release from their vows all Religious who desired it, and
ordered to dismiss all who had been professed under twenty years of age,
or who were at the present date under twenty-four years old. Besides
this he was commissioned to enforce the enclosure with the utmost
rigour, to set porters at the doors to see that it was observed, and to
encourage all who had any grievance against their superiors to forward
complaints through himself to Cromwell.

Ralph understood well enough the first object of these regulations,
namely to make monastic life impossible. It was pretty evident that a
rigorous confinement would breed discontent; which in its turn would be
bound to escape through the vent-hole which the power of appeal
provided; thus bringing about a state of anarchy within the house, and
the tightening of the hold of the civil authority upon the Religious.

Lastly the Visitors were authorised to seize any church furniture or
jewels that they might judge would be better in secular custody.

Once more, he had learned both from Cromwell, and from his own
experience at Paul's Cross, how the laity itself was being carefully
prepared for the blow that was impending, by an army of selected
preachers who could be trusted to say what they were told. Only a few
days before Ralph had halted his horse at the outskirts of a huge crowd
gathered round Paul's Cross, and had listened to a torrent of
vituperation poured out by a famous orator against the mendicant friars;
and from the faces and exclamations of the people round him he had
learned once more that greed was awake in England.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a somewhat dismal ride that he had this day. The sky was heavy
and overcast, it rained constantly, and the roads were in a more dreary
condition even than usual. He splashed along through the mud with his
servants behind him, wrapped in his cloak; and his own thoughts were not
of a sufficient cheerfulness to compensate for the external discomforts.
His political plane of thought was shot by a personal idea. He guessed
that he would have to commit himself in a manner that he had never done
before; and was not wholly confident that he would be able to explain
matters satisfactorily to Beatrice. Besides, the particular district to
which he was appointed included first Lewes, where Chris would have an
eye on his doings, and secondly