answer. "And there was his saddle, Mr. Christopher, with
silver-gilt stirrups, and red velvet, set on my lord's mule. And there
was the Red Hat borne in front by another gentleman. At mass, too, he
would be served by none under the rank of an earl; and I heard that he
would have a duke sometimes for his lavabo. I heard Mr. Ralph say that
there was more than a hundred and fifty carts that went with the Lord
Cardinal up to Cawood, and that was after the King's grace had broken
with him, sir; and he was counted a poor man."

Chris asked what was in the carts.

"Just his stuff, sir," said Mr. Morris reverentially.

The servant seemed to take a melancholy pleasure in recounting these
glories, but was most discreet about the political aspects of Wolsey,
although Chris tried hard to get him to speak, and he would neither
praise nor blame the fallen prelate; he was more frank, however, about
Campeggio, who as an Italian, was a less dangerous target.

"He was not a good man, I fear, Mr. Christopher. They told some very
queer tales of him when he was over here. But he could ride, sir, Master
Maxwell's man told me, near as well as my Lord of Canterbury himself.
You know they say, sir, that the Archbishop can ride horses that none of
his grooms can manage. But I never liked to think that a foreigner was
to be sent over to do our business for us, and more than ever not such
an one as that."

He proceeded to talk a good deal about Campeggio; his red silk and his
lace, his gout, his servants, his un-English ways; but it began to get a
little tiresome to Chris, and soon after passing through Ditchling, Mr.
Morris, having pointed across the country towards Fatton Hovel, and
having spoken of the ghost of a cow that was seen there with two heads,
one black and one white, fell gradually behind again, and Chris rode
alone.

They were coming up now towards the downs, and the great rounded green
shoulders heaved high against the sky, gashed here and there by white
strips and patches where the chalk glared in the bright afternoon sun.
Ditchling beacon rose to their right, a hundred feet higher than the
surrounding hills, and the high country sloped away from it parallel
with their road, down to Lewes. The shadows were beginning to lie
eastwards and to lengthen in long blue hollows and streaks against the
clear green turf.

Chris wondered when he would see that side of the downs again; his ride
was like a kind of farewell progress, and all that he looked on was
dearer than it had ever been before, but he comforted himself by the
thought of that larger world, so bright with revelation and so
enchanting in its mystery that lay before him. He pleased himself by
picturing this last journey as a ride through an overhung lane,
beautiful indeed, but dusky, towards shining gates beyond which lay
great tracts of country set with palaces alive with wonderful presences,
and watered by the very river of life.

He did not catch sight of Lewes until he was close upon it, and it
suddenly opened out beneath him, with its crowded roofs pricked by a
dozen spires, the Norman castle on its twin mounds towering to his left,
a silver gleam of the Ouse here and there between the plaster and timber
houses as the river wound beneath its bridges, and beyond all the vast
masses of the Priory straight in front of him to the South of the town,
the church in front with its tall central tower, a huddle of convent
roofs behind, all white against the rich meadows that lay beyond the
stream.

Mr. Morris came up as Chris checked his horse here.

"See, Mr. Christopher," he said, and the other turned to see the town
gallows on the right of the road, not fifty yards away, with a ragged
shape or two hanging there, and a great bird rising heavily and winging
its way into the west. Mr. Morris's face bore a look of judicial
satisfaction.

"We are making a sweep of them," he said, and as a terrible figure, all
rags and sores, with blind red eyes and toothless mouth rose croaking
and entreating from the ditch by the road, the servant pointed with
tight lips and solemn eyes to Hangman's Acre. Chris fumbled in his
purse, threw a couple of groats on to the ground, and rode on down the
hill.

His heart was beating fast as he went down Westgate Lane into the High
Street, and it quickened yet further as the great bells in the Priory
church began to jangle; for it was close on vesper time, and
instinctively he shook his reins to hasten his beast, who was picking
his way delicately through the filth and tumbled stones that lay
everywhere, for the melodious roar seemed to be bidding him haste and be
welcome. Mr. Morris was close beside him, and remarked on this and that
as they went, the spire of St. Ann's away to the right, with St.
Pancras's Bridge, a swinging sign over an inn with Queen Katharine's
face erased, but plainly visible under Ann Boleyn's, the tall mound
beyond the Priory crowned by a Calvary, and the roof of the famous
dove-cote of the Priory, a great cruciform structure with over two
thousand cells. But Christopher knew it all better than the servant,
and paid little attention, and bes