itively where the key of each situation lay, and dealt with them one
after another briefly and effectively. And yet with all this no man wore
an appearance of greater leisure; he would gossip harmlessly for an
hour, and yet by the end had said all that he wished to say, and
generally learnt, too, from his companion whoever he might be, all he
wished to learn. Ralph had watched him more than once at this business;
had seen delicate subjects introduced in a deft unsuspicious sentence
that roused no alarm, and had marvelled at his power to play with men
without their dreaming of what was going forward.

And now it was Master More that was threatened. Ralph knew well that
there was far more behind the scenes than he could understand or even
perceive, and recognised that the position of Sir Thomas was more
significant than would appear, and that developments might be expected
to follow soon.

For himself he had no shrinking from his task. He understood that
government was carried on by such methods, and that More himself would
be the first to acknowledge that in war many things were permissible
that would be outrageous in times of peace, and that these were times of
war. To call upon a friend, to eat his bread and salt, and talk
familiarly with him, and to be on the watch all the while for a weak
spot through which that friend might be wounded, seemed to Ralph,
trained now and perfected in Cromwell's school, a perfectly legitimate
policy, and he walked homewards this summer evening, pleased with this
new mark of confidence, and anxious to acquit himself well in his task.

       *       *       *       *       *

The house that Ralph occupied in Westminster was in a street to the west
of the Abbey, and stood back a little between its neighbours. It was a
very small one, of only two rooms in width and one in depth, and three
stories high; but it had been well furnished, chiefly with things
brought up from Overfield Court, to which Ralph had taken a fancy, and
which his father had not denied him. He lived almost entirely in the
first floor, his bedroom and sitting-room being divided by the narrow
landing at the head of the stairs that led up to the storey above, which
was occupied by Mr. Morris and a couple of other servants. The lower
storey Ralph used chiefly for purposes of business, and for interviews
which were sufficiently numerous for one engaged in so many affairs.
Cromwell had learnt by now that he could be trusted to say little and to
learn much, and the early acts of many little dramas that had ended in
tragedy had been performed in the two gravely-furnished rooms on the
ground floor. A good deal of the law-business, in its early stages,
connected with the annulling of the King's marriage with Queen Katharine
had been done there; a great canonist from a foreign university had
explained there his views in broken English, helped out with Latin, to a
couple of shrewd-faced men, while Ralph watched the case for his master;
and Cromwell himself had found the little retired house a convenience
for meeting with persons whom he did not wish to frighten over much,
while Ralph and Mr. Morris sat alert and expectant on the other side of
the hall, with the door open, listening for raised voices or other signs
of a quarrel.

The rooms upstairs had been furnished with considerable care. The floors
of both were matted, for the plan involved less trouble than the
continual laying of clean rushes. The sitting-room was panelled up six
feet from the floor, and the three feet of wall above were covered with
really beautiful tapestry that Ralph had brought up from Overfield.
There was a great table in the centre, along one side of which rested a
set of drawers with brass handles, and in the centre of the table was a
deep well, covered by a flap that lay level with the rest of the top.
Another table stood against the wall, on which his meals were served,
and the door of a cupboard in which his plate and knives were kept
opened immediately above it, designed in the thickness of the wall.
There were half-a-dozen chairs, two or three other pieces of furniture,
a backed settle by the fire and a row of bookshelves opposite the
windows; and over the mantelpiece, against the tapestry, hung a picture
of Cromwell, painted by Holbein, and rejected by him before it was
finished. Ralph had begged it from the artist who was on the point of
destroying it. It represented the sitter's head and shoulders in
three-quarter face, showing his short hair, his shrewd heavy face, with
its double chin, and the furred gown below.

Mr. Morris was ready for his master and opened the door to him.

"There are some letters come, Mr. Ralph, sir," he said. "I have laid
them on your table."

Ralph nodded, slipped off his thin cloak into his servant's hands
without speaking, laid down his cane and went upstairs.

The letters were very much what he expected, and dealt with cases on
which he was engaged. There was an entreaty from a country squire near
Epping Forest, whose hounds had got into trouble with the King's
foresters that he would intercede for him to Cromwell. A beggin