y its rich saddle, and still attached
to the ring by the stable door, and a couple of men were busy loading
one of them with bundles. From one of these, which was badly packed, a
shimmering corner of gold cloth projected.

Ralph was standing by the door of the guest-house watching, and making a
sign now and again with his whip. They could not see his face as he
stood so directly below them, only his rich cap and feather, and his
strong figure beneath. Mr. Morris was waiting now by his master's horse;
the portress was by her door.

As they looked the little black and white figure of the Abbess came out
beneath them, and stood by the portress.

The packing went on in silence. It was terrible to Mary to stand there
and watch the dumb-show tragedy, the wrecking and robbing of this
peaceful house; and yet there was nothing to be done. She knew that the
issues were in stronger hands than hers; she glanced piteously at her
father and brother on either side, but their faces were set and white,
and they did not turn at her movement.

There was the sound of an opening door, and two women came out from the
convent at one side and stood waiting. One was in secular dress; the
other was still in her habit, but carried a long dark mantle across her
arm, and Mary caught her breath and bit her lip fiercely as she
recognised the second to be her sister.

She felt she must cry out, and denounce the sacrilege, and made an
instinctive movement nearer the window, but in a moment her father's
hand was on her arm.

"Be still, Mary: it is all well."

One of the horses was being led away by now through the open door; and
the two others followed almost immediately; but the principal actors
were still in their places; the Abbess and the portress together on this
side; Ralph on that; and the two other women, a little apart from one
another, at the further end of the court.

Then Ralph beckoned abruptly with his whip, and Mary saw her sister move
out towards the gate; she caught a glance of her face, and saw that her
lips were white and trembling, and her eyes full of agony. The other
woman followed briskly, and the two disappeared through to the road
outside.

Again Ralph beckoned, and Mr. Morris brought up the horse that he had
now detached from the ring, and stood by its head, holding the
off-stirrup for his master to mount. Ralph gathered the reins into his
left hand, and for a moment they saw his face across the back of the
horse fierce and white; then he was up, and settling his right foot into
the stirrup.

Mr. Morris let go, and stood back; and simultaneously Ralph struck him
with his riding-whip across the face, a furious back-handed slash.

Mary cried out uncontrollably and shrank back; and a moment later her
father was leaning from the window, and she beside him.

"You damned coward!" he shouted. "Morris, you are my servant now."

Ralph did not turn his head an inch, and a moment later disappeared on
horse-back through the gate, and the portress had closed it behind him.

The little court was silent now, and empty except for the Abbess'
motionless figure behind, with Mr. Morris beside her, and the lay sister
by the gate, her hand still on the key that she had turned, and her eyes
intent and expectant fixed on her superior. Mr. Morris lifted a
handkerchief now and again gently to his face, and Mary as she leaned
half sobbing from above saw that there were spots of crimson on the
white.

"Oh! Morris!" she whispered.

The servant looked up, with a great weal across one cheek, and bowed a
little, but he could not speak yet. Outside they could hear the jingle
of bridle-chains; and then a voice begin; but they could not distinguish
the words.

It was Ralph speaking; but they could only guess what it was that he was
saying. Overhead the autumn sky was a vault of pale blue; and a bird or
two chirped briskly from the roof opposite.

The voice outside grew louder, and ceased, and the noise of horse hoofs
broke out.

Still there was no movement from any within. The Abbess was standing now
with one hand uplifted as if for silence, and Mary heard the hoofs sound
fainter up the road; they grew louder again as they reached higher
ground; and then ceased altogether.

The old man touched Mary on the arm, and the three went out along the
little corridor, and down the stone stairs.

As they passed through the lodge and came into the court Mary saw that
the Abbess had moved from her place, and was standing with the portress
close by the gate; her face was towards them, a little on one side, and
she seemed to be listening intently, her ear against the door, her lower
lip sucked in, and her eyes bright and vacant; she still held one hand
up for silence.

Then there came a tiny tapping on the wood-work, and she instantly
turned and snatched at the key, and a moment later the door was wide.

"Come in, my poor child," she said.




CHAPTER VII

ST PANCRAS PRIORY


It was a little more than a month later that Ralph met his
fellow-Visitor at Lewes Priory.

He had left Rusper in a storm of angry obstinacy, compelled by sheer
pride to do what he had not intended. The arri