her Visitor would come that way
for the present; she might at least have another year or two of peace.
Was it too late?

He reminded himself again how such things were bound to happen; how
every change, however beneficial, must bring sorrow with it, and that to
turn back on such work because a few women suffered was not worthy of a
man. It was long before he could come to any decision, and the evening
was drawing on, and the time for Vespers come and gone before he turned
at last into the village to enquire for his servant.

The other men had seen nothing of Mr. Morris that day; he had not been
back to the village.

A group or two stared awefully at the fine gentleman with the strong
face and steady intolerant eyes, as he strode down the tiny street in
his rich dress, swinging his long silver-headed cane. They had learnt
who he was now, but were so overcome by seeing the King's Commissioner
that they forgot to salute him. As he turned the corner again he looked
round once more, and there they were still watching him. A few women had
come to the doors as well, and dropped their arched hands hastily and
disappeared as he turned.

The convent seemed all as he had left it earlier in the afternoon, as he
came in sight of it again. The high chapel roof rose clear against the
reddening sky, with the bell framed in its turret distinct as if carved
out of cardboard against the splendour.

He was admitted instantly when he rang on the bell, but the portress
seemed to look at him with a strange air of expectancy, and stood
looking after him as he went across the paved court to the door of the
guest-house.

There was a murmur of voices in the parlour as he paused in the entry,
and he wondered who was within, but as his foot rang out the sound
ceased.

He opened the door and went in; and then stopped bewildered.

In the dim light that passed through the window stood his father and
Mary Maxwell, his sister.




CHAPTER V

FATHER AND SON


None of the three spoke for a moment.

Then Mary drew her breath sharply as she saw Ralph's face, for it had
hardened during that moment into a kind of blind obstinacy which she had
only seen once or twice in her life before.

As he stood there he seemed to stiffen into resistance. His eyelids
drooped, and little lines showed themselves suddenly at either side of
his thin mouth. His father saw it too, for the hand that he had lifted
entreatingly sank again, and his voice was tremulous as he spoke.

"Ralph--Ralph, my son!" he said.

Still the man said nothing; but stood frozen, his face half-turned to
the windows.

"Ralph, my son," said the other again, "you know why we have come."

"You have come to hinder my business."

His voice was thin and metallic, as rigid as steel.

"We have come to hinder a great sin against God," said Sir James.

Ralph opened his eyes wide with a sort of fury, and thrust his chin out.

"She should pack a thousand times more now than before," he said.

The father's face too deepened into strength now, and he drew himself
up.

"Do you know what you are doing?" he said.

"I do, sir."

There was an extraordinary insolence in his voice, and Mary took a step
forward.

"Oh! Ralph," she said, "at least do it like a gentleman!"

Ralph turned on her sharply, and the obstinacy vanished in anger.

"I will not be pushed like this," he snarled. "What right is it of yours
to come between me and my work?"

Sir James made a quick imperious gesture, and his air of entreaty fell
from him like a cloak.

"Sit down, sir," he said, and his voice rang strongly. "We have a right
in Margaret's affairs. We will say what we wish."

Mary glanced at him: she had never seen her father like this before as
he stood in three quarter profile, rigid with decision. When she looked
at Ralph again, his face had tightened once more into obstinacy. He
answered Sir James with a kind of silky deference.

"Of course, I will sit down, sir, and you shall say what you will."

He went across the room and drew out a couple of chairs before the cold
hearth where the white ashes and logs of last night's fire still rested.
Sir James sat down with his back to the window so that Mary could not
see his face, and Ralph stood by the other chair a moment, facing her.

"Sit down, Mary," he said. "Wait, I will have candles."

He stepped back to the door and called to the portress, and then
returned, and seated himself deliberately, setting his cane in the
corner beside him.

None of the three spoke again until the nun had come in with a couple of
candles that she set in the stands and lighted; then she went out
without glancing at anyone. Mary was sitting in the window seat, so the
curtains remained undrawn, and there was a mystical compound of twilight
and candle-light in the room.

She had a flash of metaphor, and saw in it the meeting of the old and
new religions; the type of these two men, of whom the light of one was
fading, and the other waxing. The candlelight fell full on Ralph's face
that stood out against the whitewashed wall behind.

Then she listened and watched with an intent interest.

       *       *       *       *      