ouses, a month later, a paper
of articles to which the clergy instantly agreed. These articles
proceeded in the direction of Protestantism through omission rather than
affirmation. Baptism, Penance and the Sacrament of the Altar were spoken
of in Catholic terms; the other four sacraments were omitted altogether;
on the other hand, again, devotion to saints, image-worship, and prayers
for the departed were enjoined with important qualifications.

Finally it was agreed to support the King in his refusal to be
represented at the proposed General Council at Mantua.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tidings of all this, filtering in to the house at Lewes by priests
and Religious who stayed there from time to time, did not tend to
reassure those who looked for peace. The assault was not going to stop
at matters of discipline; it was dogma that was aimed at, and, worse
even than that, the foundation on which dogma rested. It was not an
affair of Religious Houses, or even of morality; there was concerned the
very Rock itself on which Christendom based all faith and morals. If it
was once admitted that a National Church, apart from the See of Rome,
could in the smallest degree adjudicate on a point of doctrine, the
unity of the Catholic Church as understood by every monk in the house,
was immediately ruptured.

Again and again in chapter there were terrible scenes. The Prior raved
weakly, crying that it was not the part of a good Catholic to resist his
prince, that the Apostle himself enjoined obedience to those in
authority; that the new light of learning had illuminated perplexing
problems; and that in the uncertainty it was safer to follow the certain
duty of civil obedience. Dom Anthony answered that a greater than St.
Paul had bidden His followers to render to God the things that were
God's; that St. Peter was crucified sooner than obey Nero--and the Prior
cried out for silence; and that he could not hear his Christian King
likened to the heathen emperor. Monk after monk would rise; one
following his Prior, and disclaiming personal learning and
responsibility; another with ironic deference saying that a man's soul
was his own, and that not even a Religious Superior could release from
the biddings of conscience; another would balance himself between the
parties, declaring that the distinction of duties was insoluble; that in
such a case as this it was impossible to know what was due to God and
what to man. Yet another voice would rise from time to time declaring
that the tales that they heard were incredible; that it was impossible
that the King should intend such evil against the Church; he still heard
his three masses a day as he had always done; there was no more ardent
defender of the Sacrament of the Altar.

Chris used to steady himself in this storm of words as well as he could,
by reflecting that he probably would not have to make a decision, for it
would be done for him, at least as regarded his life in the convent or
out, by his superiors. Or again he would fix his mind resolutely on his
approaching priesthood; while the Prior sat gnawing his lips, playing
with his cross and rapping his foot, before bursting out again and
bidding them all be silent, for they knew not what they were meddling
with.

The misery rose to its climax when the Injunctions arrived; and the
chapter sat far into the morning, meeting again after dinner to consider
them.

These were directions, issued to the clergy throughout the country, by
the authority of the King alone; and this very fact was significant of
what the Royal Supremacy meant. Some of them did not touch the
Religious, and were intended only for parish-priests; but others were
bitterly hard to receive.

The community was informed that in future, once in every quarter, a
sermon was to be preached against the Bishop of Rome's usurped power;
the Ten Articles, previously issued, were to be brought before the
notice of the congregation; and careful instructions were to be given as
regards superstition in the matter of praying to the saints. It was the
first of these that caused the most strife.

Dom Anthony, who was becoming more and more the leader of the
conservative party, pointed out that the See of Peter was to every
Catholic the root of authority and unity, and that Christianity itself
was imperilled if this rock were touched.

The Prior angrily retorted that it was not the Holy See that was to be
assaulted, but the erection falsely raised upon it; it was the abuse of
power, not the use of it that had to be denounced.

Dom Anthony requested the Prior to inform him where the line of
distinction lay; and the Prior in answer burst into angry explanations,
instancing the pecuniary demands of the Pope, the appointment of
foreigners to English benefices, and all the rest of the accusations
that were playing such a part now in the religious controversy of the
country.

Dom Anthony replied that those were not the matters principally aimed at
by the Injunction; it concerned rather the whole constitution of
Christ's Church, and was a question of the Pope's or the King's
supremacy o