from sin by dying---"

"By bearing pain, you mean?"

"Yes; by dying. Well, what they call the Incarnation is really the
point. Everything else flows from that. And, once a man believes that, I
must confess that all the rest follows--even down to scapulars and holy
water."

"Mr. Francis, I don't understand a word you're saying."

He smiled indulgently.

"Of course not," he said; "it is all incredible nonsense. But, you know,
I did really believe it all once."

"But it's unreasonable," she said.

He made a little demurring sound.

"Yes," he said, "in one sense, of course it is--utterly unreasonable.
But in another sense---"

She leaned forward suddenly, and he could catch the glint of her eyes
beneath her white veil.

"Ah!" she said, almost breathlessly. "That is what I want to hear. Now,
tell me how they justify it."

He paused an instant, considering.

"Well," he said slowly, "as far as I remember, they say that there are
other faculties besides those of reason. They say, for example, that
the heart sometimes finds out things that the reason cannot--intuitions,
you see. For instance, they say that all things such as self-sacrifice
and chivalry and even art--all come from the heart, that Reason comes
with them--in rules of technique, for instance--but that it cannot prove
them; they are quite apart from that."

"I think I see."

"Well, they say that Religion is like that--in other words, they
practically confess that it is merely a matter of emotion." He paused
again, trying to be fair. "Well, perhaps they would not say
that--although it is true. But briefly---"

"Well?"

"Well, they say there is a thing called Faith--a kind of deep conviction
unlike anything else--supernatural--which God is supposed to give to
people who desire it--to people who pray for it, and lead good lives,
and so on---"

"And this Faith?"

"Well, this Faith, acting upon what they call Evidences--this Faith
makes them absolutely certain that there is a God, that He was made man
and so on, with the Church and all the rest of it. They say too that
this is further proved by the effect that their religion has had in the
world, and by the way it explains man's nature to himself. You see, it
is just a case of self-suggestion."

He heard her sigh, and stopped.

"Is that any clearer, Mrs. Brand?"

"Thank you very much," she said, "it certainly is clearer. ... And it is
true that Christians have died for this Faith, whatever it is?"

"Oh! yes. Thousands and thousands. Just as Mohammedans have for theirs."

"The Mohammedans believe in God, too, don't they?"

"Well, they did, and I suppose that a few do now. But very few: the rest
have become esoteric, as they say."

"And--and which would you say were the most highly evolved people--East
or West?"

"Oh! West undoubtedly. The East thinks a good deal, but it doesn't act
much. And that always leads to confusion--even to stagnation of
thought."

"And Christianity certainly has been the Religion of the West up to a
hundred years ago?"

"Oh! yes."

She was silent then, and Mr. Francis had time again to reflect how very
odd all this was. She certainly must be very much attached to this
Christian friend of hers.

Then she stood up, and he rose with her.

"Thank you so much, Mr. Francis.... Then that is the kind of outline?"

"Well, yes; so far as one can put it in a few words."

"Thank you.... I mustn't keep you."

He went with her towards the door. But within a yard of it she stopped.

"And you, Mr. Francis. You were brought up in all this. Does it ever
come back to you?"

He smiled.

"Never," he said, "except as a dream."

"How do you account for that, then? If it is all self-suggestion, you
have had thirty years of it."

She paused; and for a moment he hesitated what to answer.

"How would your old fellow-Catholics account for it?"

"They would say that I bad forfeited light--that Faith was withdrawn."

"And you?"

Again he paused.

"I should say that I had made a stronger self-suggestion the other way."

"I see.... Good-night, Mr. Francis."

* * * * *

She would not let him come down the lift with her, so when he had seen
the smooth box drop noiselessly below the level, he went back again to
his model of the Abbey and the little dummy figures. But, before he
began to move these about again, he sat for a moment or two with pursed
lips, staring.




CHAPTER IV

I

A week later Mabel awoke about dawn; and for a moment or two forgot
where she was. She even spoke Oliver's name aloud, staring round the
unfamiliar room, wondering what she did here. Then she remembered, and
was silent....

It was the eighth day she had spent in this Home; her probation was
finished: to-day she wits at liberty to do that for which she had come.
On the Saturday of the previous week she had gone through her private
examination before the magistrate, stating under the usual conditions of
secrecy her name, age and home, as well as her reasons for making the
application for Euthanasia; and all had passed off well. She had
selected Manchester as being sufficiently remote and sufficiently large
to secure her freedom from Oliver's molestation; and her