 in their sockets, and a tall crucifix, ivory and black,
lifting its arms in the midst. Before it stood two veiled vessels.

"He will speak before he passes," the doctor had told them the evening
before; "I do not know whether he will be able to receive Viaticum."

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris raised himself a little in his chair--he was stiff with leaning
elbows on knees; and he stretched out his feet softly; looking down
still at the bed.

His brother lay with his back to him; the priest could see the black
hair, longer than Court fashion allowed now, the brown sinewy neck
beneath; and one arm outlined over his hip beneath the piled clothes.
The fingers were moving a little, contracting and loosening, contracting
and loosening; and he could hear the long slow breaths.

Beyond sat Beatrice, upright and quiet, one hand in her lap, and the
other holding the father's. The old man was bowed with his head on his
other hand, as he had been for the last hour, his back bent forward with
the burden, and his feet crossed before him.

From outside the noises grew louder as the morning advanced. There had
been the sound of continual coming and going since it was light. Wheels
had groaned and rattled up out of the distance and ceased abruptly; and
the noise of hoofs had been like an endless patter over the
stone-paving. And now, as the hours passed a murmur had been increasing,
a strange sound like the wind in dry trees, as the huge crowd gathered.

Beatrice raised her eyes suddenly.

The fortress itself which had been quiet till now seemed to awaken
abruptly.

The sound seemed to come to them up the stairs, but they had learnt
during those hours that all sounds from within came that way. There was
a trumpet-note or two, short and brazen; a tramp of feet for a moment,
the throb of drums; then silence again; then the noise of moving
footsteps that came and went in an instant. And as the sound came, Ralph
stirred.

He swayed slowly over on to his back; his breath came in little groans
that died to silence again as he subsided, and his arm drew out and lay
on the bedclothes. Chris could see his face now in sharp profile against
Beatrice's dark skirt, white and sharp; the skin was tightly stretched
over the nose and cheekbones, his long thin lips were slightly open,
there was a painful frown on his forehead, and his eyes squinted
terribly at the ceiling.

A contraction seized the priest's throat as he watched; the face was at
once so august and so pitiable.

The lips began to move again, as they had moved during the night; it
seemed as if the dying man were talking and listening. The eyelids
twitched a little; and once he made a movement as if to rise up. Chris
was down on his knees in a moment, holding him tenderly down; he felt
the thin hands come up and fumble with his own, and noticed lines deepen
between the flickering eyelids. Then the hands lay quiet.

Chris lifted his eyes and saw his father's face and Beatrice's watching.
Something of the augustness of the dying man seemed to rest on the grey
bearded lips and solemn eyes that looked down. Beatrice's face was
steady and tender, and as the priest's eyes met hers, she nodded.

"Yes, speak to him," she said.

Chris threw a hand across the bed and rested it on the wooden frame, and
then lowered himself softly till his mouth was at the other's ear.

"Ralph," he said, "Ralph, do you hear me?"

Then he raised his face a little and watched.

The eyelids were rising slowly; but they dropped again; and there came a
little faint babbling from the writhing lips; but no words were
intelligible. Then they were silent.

"He hears," said Beatrice softly.

The priest bent low again; and as he did so, from outside came a strange
sound, as of a long monstrous groan from a thousand throats. Again the
dying man stirred; his hand sought his brother's arm and gripped it with
a kind of feeble strength; then dropped again on to the coverlet.

Chris hesitated a moment, and again glanced up; and as he did so, there
was a sound on the stairs. He threw himself back on his heels and looked
round, as the doctor came in with Morris behind him.

He was a stout ruddy man, and moved heavily across the floor; but Ralph
seemed not to hear it.

The doctor came to the end of the bed, and stood staring down at the
dying man's face, frowning and pursing his lips; Chris watched him
intently for some sign. Then he came round by Beatrice, leaned over the
bed, and took Ralph's wrist softly into his fingers. He suddenly seemed
to remember himself, and turned his face abruptly over his shoulder to
Sir James.

"There is a man come from the palace," he whispered harshly. "I suppose
it is the pardon." And Chris saw him arch his eyebrows and purse his
lips again. Then he bent over Ralph once more.

Then again the doctor jerked his head towards the window behind and
spoke across to Chris.

"They have him out there," he said; "Master Cromwell, I mean."

Then he rose abruptly.

"He cannot receive Viaticum; and he will not be able to make his
confession. I should shrive him at once, sir, and anoint him."

"At once?" w