looked
hopelessly round. Her father and brother had their eyes steadily bent on
the table; and the priest was looking oddly at the quiet angry woman
opposite him.

Then Sir James slid deftly in, after a sufficient pause to let the
lesson sink home; and began to talk of indifferent things; and Beatrice
answered him with the same ease.

Lady Torridon made one more attempt just before the end of supper, when
the servants had left the room.

"You are living on--" she corrected herself ostentatiously--"you are
living with any other family now, Mistress Atherton? I remember my son
Ralph telling me you were almost one of Master More's household."

Beatrice met her eyes with a delightful smile.

"I am living on--with your family at this time, Mistress Torridon."

There was no more to be said just then. The girl had not only turned her
hostess' point, but had pricked her shrewdly in riposte, three times;
and the last was the sharpest of all.

Lady Torridon led the way to the oak parlour in silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

She made no more assaults that night; but sat in dignified aloofness,
her hands on her lap, with an air of being unconscious of the presence
of the others. Beatrice sat with Margaret on the long oak settle; and
talked genially to the company at large.

When compline had been said, Sir James drew Chris aside into the
star-lit court as the others went on in front.

"Dear lad," he said, "what are we to do? This cannot go on. Your
mother--"

Chris smiled at him, and took his arm a moment.

"Why, father," he said, "what more do we want? Mistress Atherton can
hold her own."

"But your mother will insult her."

"She will not be able," said Chris. "Mistress Atherton will not have it.
Did you not see how she enjoyed it?"

"Enjoyed it?"

"Why, yes; her eyes shone."

"Well, I must speak to her," said Sir James, still perplexed. "Come with
me, Chris."

Mr. Carleton was just leaving the parlour as they came up to its
outside door. Sir James drew him into the yard. There were no secrets
between these two.

"Father," he said, "did you notice? Do you think Mistress Atherton will
be able to stay here?"

He saw to his astonishment that the priest's melancholy face, as the
starlight fell on it, was smiling.

"Why, yes, Sir James. She is happy enough."

"But my wife--"

"Sir James, I think Mistress Atherton may do her good. She--" he
hesitated.

"Well?" said the old man.

"She--Lady Torridon has met her match," said the chaplain, still
smiling.

Sir James made a little gesture of bewilderment.

"Well, come in, Chris. I do not understand; but if you both think so--"

He broke off and opened the door.

Lady Torridon was gone to her room; and the two girls were alone.
Beatrice was standing before the hearth with her hands behind her
back--a gallant upright figure; as they came in, she turned a cheerful
face to them.

"Your daughter has been apologising, Sir James," she said; and there was
a ripple of amusement in her voice. "She thinks I have been hardly
treated."

She glanced at the bewildered Margaret, who was staring at her under her
delicate eyebrows with wide eyes of amazement and admiration.

Sir James looked confused.

"The truth is, Mistress Atherton, that I too--and my son--"

"Well, not your son," said Chris smiling.

"You too!" cried Beatrice. "And how have I been hardly treated?"

"Well, I thought perhaps, that what was said at supper--" began the old
man, beginning to smile too.

"Lady Torridon, and every one, has been all that is hospitable," said
Beatrice. "It is like old days at Chelsea. I love word-fencing; and
there are so few who practise it."

Sir James was still a little perplexed.

"You assure me, Mistress, that you are not distressed by--by anything
that has passed?"

"Distressed!" she cried. "Why, it is a real happiness!"

But he was not yet satisfied.

"You will engage to tell me then, if you think you are improperly
treated by--by anyone--?"

"Why, yes," said the girl, smiling into his eyes. "But there is no need
to promise that. I am really happy; and I am sure your daughter and I
will be good friends."

She turned a little towards Margaret; and Chris saw a curious emotion of
awe and astonishment and affection in his sister's eyes.

"Come, my dear," said Beatrice. "You said you would take me to my room."

Sir James hastened to push open the further door that led to the stairs;
and the two girls passed out together.

Then he shut the door, and turned to his son. Chris had begun to laugh.




CHAPTER III

A PEACE-MAKER


It was a very strange household that Christmas at Overfield. Mary and
her husband came over with their child, and the entire party, with the
exception of the duellists themselves, settled down to watch the
conflict between Lady Torridon and Beatrice Atherton. Its prolongation
was possible because for days together the hostess retired into a
fortress of silence, whence she looked out cynically, shrugged her
shoulders, smiled almost imperceptibly, and only sallied when she found
she could not provoke an attack. Beatrice never made an assault; was
always ready for the least hint of