l advancing. "Mr. Torridon?"

She had a paper in her hand as she came across the floor, and Ralph drew
out a chair for her on the other side of the hearth.

"Yes," he said. "Mrs. Roper has gone for lights. She will be back
immediately."

Beatrice sat down.

"It is a troublesome word," she said. "Master More cannot read it
himself, and has sent me to ask Meg. He says that every dutiful daughter
should be able to read her father's hand."

And Ralph could see a faint amused smile in her black eyes, as the
firelight shone on them.

"Master More always has an escape ready," he said, as he too sat down.

The girl's hand holding the paper suddenly dropped on to her knee, and
the man saw she was looking at him oddly.

"Yes?" he said interrogatively; and then--

"Why do you look at me like that, Mrs. Beatrice?"

"It is what you said. Do you really think that, Mr. Torridon?"

Ralph was bewildered for a moment.

"I do not understand," he said.

"Do you truly think he always has an escape ready?" repeated the girl.

Then Ralph understood.

"You mean he is in danger," he said steadily. "Well, of course he is.
There is no great man that is not. But I do not see why he should not
escape as he has always done."

"You think that, Mr. Torridon?"

"Why, yes;" went on Ralph, a little hastily. "You remember the matter
of the bribe. See how he cleared himself. Surely, Mrs. Beatrice--"

"And you really think so," said the girl. "I know that you know what we
do not; and I shall believe what you say."

"How can I tell?" remonstrated Ralph. "I can only tell you that in this
matter I know nothing that you do not. Master More is under no
suspicion."

Beatrice drew a breath of relief.

"I am glad I spoke to you, sir," she said. "It has been on my mind. And
something that he said a few minutes ago frightened me."

"What did he say?" asked Ralph curiously.

"Ah! it was not much. It was that no man knew what might come next; that
matters were very strange and dismaying--and--and that he wanted this
paper copied quickly, for fear--"

The girl stopped again, abruptly.

"I know what you feel, Mrs. Beatrice," said Ralph gently. "I know how
you love Master More, and how terrified we may become for our friends."

"What do you think yourself, Mr. Torridon," she said suddenly, almost
interrupting him.

He looked at her doubtfully a moment, and half wished that Margaret
would come back.

"That is a wide question," he said.

"Well, you know what I mean," she said coolly, completely herself again.
She was sitting back in her chair now, drawing the paper serenely to and
fro between her fingers; and he could see the firelight on her chin and
brows, and those steady eyes watching him. He had an impulse of
confidence.

"I do think changes are coming," he said. "I suppose we all do."

"And you approve?"

"Oh! how can I say off-hand?--But I think changes are needed."

She was looking down at the fire again now, and did not speak for a
moment.

"Master More said you were of the new school," she said meditatively.

Ralph felt a curious thrill of exultation. Margaret was right then; this
girl had been thinking about him.

"There is certainly a stirring," he said; and his voice was a little
restrained.

"Oh, I am not blind or deaf," said the girl. "Of course, there is a
stirring--but I wondered--"

Then Margaret came in with the candles.

Ralph went away that evening more excited than he liked. It seemed as if
Mistress Roper's words had set light to a fire ready laid, and he could
perceive the warmth beginning to move about his heart and odd wavering
lights flickering on his circumstances and business that had not been
there before.

       *       *       *       *       *

He received his first letter from Beatrice a few weeks later, and it
threw him into a strait between his personal and official claims.

Cromwell at this time was exceedingly occupied with quelling the ardour
of the House of Lords, who were requesting that the Holy Maid of Kent
and her companions might have an opportunity of defending themselves
before the Act of Attainder ordered by the King was passed against them;
but he found time to tell his agent that trouble was impending over More
and Fisher; and to request him to hand in any evidence that he might
have against the former.

"I suppose we shall have to let the Bishop off with a fine," said the
minister, "in regard to the Maid's affair; but we shall catch him
presently over the Act; and Mr. More is clear of it. But we shall have
him too in a few days. Put down what you have to say, Mr. Torridon, and
let me have it this evening."

And then he rustled off down the staircase to where his carriage was
waiting to take him to Westminster, where he proposed to tell the
scrupulous peers that the King was not accustomed to command twice, and
that to suspect his Grace of wishing them to do an injustice was a piece
of insolence that neither himself nor his royal master had expected of
them.

Ralph was actually engaged in putting down his very scanty accusations
against Sir Thomas More when the letter from Beatrice was brought up to
him. He read it through twice 