es rolled round.

"You, sir," cried the doctor, glaring at the Sub-Prior, who dropped his
beseeching eyes at the fierce look, "you, sir, have committed the
crime--in ignorance, you tell me--but at least the crime of preaching in
this priory-church in the presence of his Grace's faithful subjects a
sermon attacking the King's most certain prerogatives. I can make
perhaps allowances for this--though I do not know whether his Grace will
do so--but I can make allowances for one so foolish as yourself carried
away by the drunkenness of words; but I can make none--none--" he
shouted, crashing his hand upon the table, "none for your superior who
stands beside you, and who forebore either to protest at the treason at
the time or to rebuke it afterwards."

The Prior's hands rose and clasped themselves convulsively, but he made
no answer.

Dr. Layton proceeded to read out the confession that he had wrung from
the monk the night before, down to the signature; then he called upon
him to come up.

"Is this your name, sir?" he asked slowly.

The Sub-Prior took the paper in his trembling hands.

"It is sir," he said.

"You hear it," cried the doctor, staring fiercely round the faces, "he
tells you he has subscribed it himself. Go back to your place, reverend
father, and thank our Lord that you had courage to do so.

"And now, you, sir, Master Prior, what have you to say?"

Dr. Layton dropped his voice as he spoke, and laid his fat hands
together on the table. The Prior looked up with the same dreadful
entreaty as before; his lips moved, but no sound came from them. The
monks round were deadly still; Ralph saw a swift glance or two exchanged
beneath the shrouding hoods, but no one moved.

"I am waiting, my Lord Prior," cried Layton in a loud terrible voice.

Again the Prior writhed his lips to speak.

Dr. Layton rose abruptly and made a violent gesture.

"Down on your knees, Master Prior, if you need mercy."

There was a quick murmur and ripple along the two lines as the Prior
dropped suddenly on to his knees and covered his face with his hands.

Dr. Layton threw out his hand with a passionate gesture and began to
speak--.

"There, reverend fathers and brethren," he cried, "you see how low sin
brings a man. This fellow who calls himself prior was bold enough, I
daresay, in the church when treason was preached; and, I doubt not, has
been bold enough in private too when he thought none heard him but his
friends. But you see how treachery,--heinous treachery,--plucks the
spirit from him, and how lowly he carries himself when he knows that
true men are sitting in judgment over him. Take example from that, you
who have served him in the past; you need never fear him more now."

Dr. Layton dropped his hand and sat down. For one moment Ralph saw the
kneeling man lift that white face again, but the doctor was at him
instantly.

"Do not dare to rise, sir, till I give you leave," he roared. "You had
best be a penitent. Now tell me, sir, what you have to say. It shall not
be said that we condemned a man unheard. Eh! Mr. Torridon?"

Ralph nodded sharply, and glanced at Chris; but his brother was staring
at the Prior.

"Now then, sir," cried the doctor again.

"I entreat you, Master Layton--"

The Prior's voice was convulsed with terror as he cried this with
outstretched hands.

"Yes, sir, I will hear you."

"I entreat you, sir, not to tell his Grace. Indeed I am innocent"--his
voice rose thin and high in his panic--indeed, I did not know it was
treason that was preached."

"Did not know?" sneered the doctor, leaning forward over the table.
"Why, you know your Faith, man--"

"Master Layton, Master Layton; there be so many changes in these days--"

"Changes!" shouted the priest; "there be no changes, except of such
knaves as you, Master-Prior; it is the old Faith now as ever. Do you
dare to call his Grace a heretic? Must that too go down in the charges?"

"No, no, Master Layton," screamed the Prior, with his hands strained
forward and twitching fingers. "I did not mean that--Christ is my
witness!"

"Is it not the same Faith, sir?"

"Yes, Master Layton--yes--indeed, it is. But I did not know--how could I
know?"

"Then why are you Prior," cried the doctor with a dramatic gesture, "if
it is not to keep your subjects true and obedient? Do you mean to tell
me--?"

"I entreat you, sir, for the love of Mary, not to tell his Grace--"

"Bah!" shouted Dr. Layton, "you may keep your breath till you tell his
Grace that himself. There is enough of this." Again he rose, and swept
his eyes round the white-faced monks. "I am weary of this work. The
fellow has not a word to say--"

"Master Layton, Master Layton," cried the kneeling man once more,
lifting his hands on one of which gleamed the prelatical ring.

"Silence, sir," roared the doctor. "It is I who am speaking now. We have
had enough of this work. It seems that there be no true men left, except
in the world; these houses are rotten with crime. Is it not so, Master
Torridon?--rotten with crime! But of all the knaves that I did ever
meet, and they are many and strong ones, I do believe Master Prior, that
you are th