 on the old
man piteously. "He was a good servant to your Grace, but a bad one to
our Lord--"

The Archbishop drew a swift breath of horror, and his hands jerked. But
Henry seemed not to hear; his little mouth had opened in a round hole of
amazed laughter, and he was staring at the old man without hearing him.

"And you were there?" he said. "And your wife? And your aunts and
sisters?"

"My wife is dead," cried the old man. "Your Grace--"

"And on which side was she?"

"She was--was on your Grace's side."

Henry threw himself back in his chair.

       *       *       *       *       *

For one moment Chris did not know whether it was wrath or laughter that
shook him. His face grew crimson, and his narrow eyes disappeared into
shining slits; his fat hands were on his knees, and his great body
shook. From his round open mouth came silent gusts of quick breath, and
he began to sway a little from side to side.

Across the Archbishop's face came a deferential and sympathetic smile,
and he looked quickly and nervously from the King to the group and back
again. Sir James had fallen back a pace at the King's laughter, and
stood rigid and staring. Chris took a step close to him and gripped his
hand firmly.

There was a footstep behind, and the King leaned forward again, wiping
the tears away with his sleeve.

"Oh, Michael, Michael!" he sobbed, "here is a fine tale."

A dark-dressed man stepped forward from behind, and stood expectant.

"God! What a happy family!" said the King. "And this fellow here?"

He motioned towards Nicholas, with a feeble gesture. He was still weak
with laughter.

The young squire moved forward a step, rigid and indignant.

"I am against your Grace," he said sharply.

Henry grew suddenly grave.

"Eh! that is no way to speak," he said.

"It is the only way I can speak," said Nicholas, "if your Grace desires
the truth."

The King looked at him a moment; but the humour still shone in his eyes.

"Well, well. It is the truth I want. Michael, I sent for you to know
about the priest here; but I know now. And is it true that his brother
in the Tower--Ralph Torridon--was one of the Visitors?"

The man pursed his lips a moment. He was standing close to Chris, a
little in front of him.

"Yes, your Majesty."

"Oh! well. We must let him out, I suppose--if there is nothing more
against him. You shall tell me presently, Michael."

The Archbishop looked swiftly across at the party.

"Then your Grace extends--"

"Well, Michael, what is it?" interrupted the King.

"It is a matter your Majesty might wish to hear in private," said the
stranger.

"Oh, step aside, my Lord. And you, gentlemen."

The King motioned down to the further end of the room, as Michael came
forward.

The Archbishop stepped off the low platform, and led the way down the
floor; and the others followed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris was in a whirl of bewilderment. He could see the King's great face
interested and attentive as the secretary said something in his ear, and
then suddenly light up with amusement again.

"Not a word, not a word," whispered Henry harshly. "Very good, Michael."

The secretary then whispered once more. Chris could hear the sharp
sibilants, but no word. The King nodded once more, and the man stepped
down off the dais.

"Prepare the admission, then," said the King after him.

The secretary bowed as he turned and went out of the room once more.

Henry beckoned.

"Come, gentlemen."

He watched them with a solemn joviality as they came up, the Archbishop
in front, the father and son together, and the two others behind.

"You are a sad crew," began the King, eyeing them pleasantly, and
sitting forward with a hand on either knee, "and I am astonished, my
Lord of Canterbury, at your companying with them. But we will have
mercy, and remember your son's services, Master Torridon, in the past.
That alone will excuse him. Remember that. That alone. He is the
stronger man, if he turned out the priest there. And I remember your son
very well, too; and will forgive him. But I shall not employ him again.
And his forgiveness shall cover yours, Master Priest; but you must be
off--you must be off, sir," he barked suddenly, "out of these realms in
a week. We will have no more treason from you."

The fierce overpowering personality flared out as he spoke, and Chris
felt his heart beat sick at the force of it.

"And you two gentlemen," went on the King, still smouldering, "you two
had best hold your tongues. We will not hear such talk in our presence
or out of it. But we will excuse it now. There, sir, have I said
enough?"

Sir James dropped abruptly on his knees.

"Oh! God bless your Grace!" he began, with the tears running down.

Henry made an abrupt gesture.

"You shall go to your son," he said, "and see how he fares, and tell him
this. And she shall have the order of release presently, from me or
another."

Again the little mouth creased and twitched with amusement.

"And I hope he will be happy with his mother. You may tell him that from
me."

The Archbishop looked up.

"Mistress Torridon is dead, your Grace," he said softly and
ques