t? What do you mean
to do about my Lord? You know he is in the Tower?"

"I suppose so," said Ralph, "but my counsel is my own."

"Mr. Torridon, let us have an end of this. I know well that you must
have many secrets against my lord--"

"I tell you that what I know is nothing. I have not a hundredth part of
his papers."

He felt himself desperate and bewildered, like a man being pushed to the
edge of a precipice, step by step. But those black eyes held and
compelled him on. He scarcely knew what he was saying.

"And are these papers all his? What have you been doing with them?"

"My Lord told me to sort them."

The words were drawn out against his own will.

"And those in your hand--on the chair. What are they?"

Ralph made one more violent effort to regain the mastery.

"If you were not a woman, Mistress Atherton, I should tell you you were
insolent."

Not a ripple troubled those strong eyes.

"Tell me, Mr. Torridon, what are they?"

He stood silent and furious.

"I will tell you what they are," she said; "they are my Lord's secrets.
Is it not so? And you were about to burn them. Oh! Ralph, is it not so?"

Her voice had a tone of entreaty in it. He dropped his eyes, overcome by
the passion that streamed from her.

"Is it not so?" she cried again.

"Do you wish me to do so?" he said amazed. His voice seemed not his own;
it was as if another spoke for him. He had the same sensation of
powerlessness as once before when she had lashed him with her tongue in
the room downstairs.

"Wish you?" she cried. "Why, yes; what else?"

He lifted his eyes to hers; the room seemed to have grown darker yet in
those few minutes. He could only see now a shadowed face looking at him;
but her bright passionate eyes shone out from it and dominated him.

Again he spoke, in spite of himself.

"I shall not burn them," he said.

"Shall not? shall not?"

"I shall not," he said again.

There was silence. Ralph's soul was struggling desperately within him.
He put out his hand mechanically and took up the papers once more, as if
to guard them from this fierce, imperious woman. Beatrice's eyes
followed the movement; and then rested once more on his face. Then she
spoke again, with a tense deliberateness that drove every word home,
piercing and sharp to the very centre of his spirit.

"Listen," she said, "for this is what I came to say. I know what you are
thinking--I know every thought as if it were my own. You tell yourself
that it is useless to burn those secrets; that there are ten thousand
more--enough to cast my lord. I make no answer to that."

"You tell yourself that you can only save yourself by giving them up to
his enemies. I make no answer to that."

"You tell yourself that it will be known if you destroy them--that you
will be counted as one of His Highness's enemies. I make no answer to
that. And I tell you to burn them."

She came a step nearer. There was not a yard between them now; and the
fire of her words caught and scorched him with their bitterness.

"You have been false to every high and noble thing. You have been false
to your own conscience--to your father--your brother--your sister--your
Church--your King and your God. You have been false to love and honour.
You have been false to yourself. And now Almighty God of His courtesy
gives you one more opportunity--an opportunity to be true to your
master. I say nothing of him. God is his judge. You know what that
verdict will be. And yet I bid you be true to him. He has a thousand
claims on you. You have served him, though it be but Satan's service;
yet it is the highest that you know--God help you! He is called
friendless now. Shall that be wholly true of him? You will be called a
traitor presently--shall that be wholly true of you? Or shall there be
one tiny point in which you are not false and treacherous as you have
been in all other points?"

She stopped again, looking him fiercely in the eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the street outside there came the sound of footsteps; the ring of
steel on stone. Ralph heard it, and his eyes rolled round to the window;
but he did not move.

Beatrice was almost touching him now. He felt the fragrance that hung
about her envelop him for a moment. Then he felt a touch on the papers;
and his fingers closed more tightly.

The steps outside grew louder and ceased; and the house suddenly
reverberated with a thunder of knocking.

Beatrice sprang back.

"Nay, you shall give me them," she said; and stood waiting with
outstretched hand.

Ralph lifted the papers slowly, stared at them, and at her.

Then he held them out.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a moment she had snatched them; and was on her knees by the hearth.
Ralph watched her, and listened to the steps coming up the stairs. The
papers were alight now. The girl dashed her fingers among them,
grinding, tearing, separating the heavy pages.

They were almost gone by now; the thick smoke poured up the chimney; and
still Beatrice tore and dashed the ashes about.

There was a knocking at the door; and the handle turned. The girl rose
from her knees and smiled at Ralph 