an to play with it delicately as he talked.

"You will have noticed," he began, "how hot the feeling runs in the
country, and I am sure you will also have understood why it is so. It
is not so much what has happened,--I mean in the matter of the marriage
and of the friars,--but what folk fear is going to happen. It seems to
the people that security is disappearing; they do not understand that
their best security lies in obedience. And, above all, they think that
matters are dangerous with regard to the Church. They know now that the
Pope has spoken, and that the King pays no heed, but, on the other hand,
waxes more bold. And that because his conscience bids him. Remember
that, sir, when you have to do with his Highness."

He glanced at Ralph again, but there was no mockery in his solemn eyes.
Then he went on.

"I am going to tell you, Mr. Torridon, that these folks are partly
right, and that his Grace has not yet done all that he intends. There is
yet one more step to take--and that is to declare the King supreme over
the Church of England."

Ralph felt those strong eyes bent upon him, and he nodded, making no
sign of approval or otherwise.

"This is no new thing, Mr. Torridon," went on Cromwell, after a moment's
silence. "The King of England has always been supreme, though I will
acknowledge that this has become obscured of late. But it is time that
it be re-affirmed. The Popes have waxed presumptuous, and have laid
claim to titles that Christ never gave them, and it is time that they be
reminded that England is free, and will not suffer their domination. As
for the unity of the Catholic Church, that can be attended to later on,
and on firmer ground; when the Pope has been taught not to wax so proud.
There will be an Act passed by Parliament presently, perhaps next year,
to do this business, and then we shall know better what to do. Until
that, it is very necessary, as you have already seen, to keep the folks
quiet, and not to suffer any contradiction of his Grace's rights. Do you
understand me, Mr. Torridon?"

Cromwell laid the pen clown and leaned back in his chair, with his
fingers together.

"I understand, sir," said Ralph, in a perfectly even tone.

"Well, that is all that I have to say," ended his master, still watching
him. "I need not tell you how necessary secrecy is in the matter."

Ralph was considerably startled as he went home, and realized better
what it was that he had heard. While prudent persons were already
trembling at the King's effrontery and daring in the past, Henry was
meditating a yet further step. He began to see now that the instinct of
the country was, as always, sharper than that of the individual, and
that these uneasy strivings everywhere rose from a very definite
perception of danger. The idea of the King's supremacy, as represented
by Cromwell, would not seem to be a very startling departure; similar
protests of freedom had been made in previous reigns, but now, following
as it did upon overt acts of disobedience to the Sovereign Pontiff, and
of disregard of his authority in matters of church-law and even of the
status of Religious houses, it seemed to have a significance that
previous protests had lacked.

And behind it all was the King's conscience! This was a new thought to
Ralph, but the more he considered it the more it convinced him. It was a
curious conscience, but a mighty one, and it was backed by an
indomitable will. For the first time there opened out to Ralph's mind a
glimpse of the possibility that he had scarcely dreamed of hitherto--of
a Nationalism in Church affairs that was a reality rather than a
theory--in which the Bishop of Rome while yet the foremost bishop of
Christendom and endowed with special prerogatives, yet should have no
finger in national affairs, which should be settled by the home
authorities without reference to him. No doubt, he told himself, a
readjustment was needed--visions and fancies had encrusted themselves so
quickly round the religion credible by a practical man that a scouring
was called for. How if this should be the method by which not only such
accretions should be done away, but yet more practical matters should be
arranged, and steps taken to amend the unwarranted interferences and
pecuniary demands of this foreign bishop?

He had had more than one interview with Sir Thomas More in the Tower,
and once was able to take him news of his own household at Chelsea. For
a month none of his own people, except his servant, was allowed to visit
him, and Ralph, calling on him about three weeks after the beginning of
his imprisonment, found him eager for news.

He was in a sufficiently pleasant cell in the Beauchamp Tower, furnished
with straw mats underfoot, and straw hangings in place of a wainscot;
his bed stood in one corner, with his crucifix and beads on a little
table beside it, and his narrow window looked out through eleven feet of
wall towards the Court and the White Tower. His books, too, which his
servant, John Wood, had brought from Chelsea, and which had not yet been
taken from him, stood about the room, and several lay on the table among
hi