d. "We had words with Portinari. You
must not remain longer in the town."

Chris looked at him.

"Yes?" he said.

"And the chapels will be down immediately. Oh! dear God!"

Dom Anthony made room for the old man to sit down in the window-seat;
and himself stood behind the two with Nicholas; and so again they
watched.

The light was fading fast now, and in the windows below lights were
beginning to shine. The square western tower that dominated the whole
priory had lost its splendour, and stood up strong and pale against the
meadows. There was a red flare of light somewhere over the wall of the
court, and the inner side of the gate-turret was illuminated by it.

A tense excitement lay on the watchers; and no sound came from them but
that of quick breathing as they waited for what they knew was imminent.

Outside the evening was wonderfully still; they could hear two men
talking somewhere in the street below; but from the priory came no
sound. The chink of the picks was still, and the cries of the workmen.
Far away beyond the castle on their left came an insistent barking of a
dog; and once, when a horseman rode by below Chris bit his lip with
vexation, for it seemed to him like the disturbing of a death bed. A
star or two looked out, vanished, and peeped again from the luminous
sky, to the south, and the downs beneath were grey and hazy.

All the watchers now had their eyes on the eastern end of the church
that lay in dim shadow; they could see the roof of the vault behind
where the high altar lay beneath; the flying buttress of a chapel below;
and, nearer, the low roof of the Lady-chapel.

Chris kept his eyes strained on the upper vault, for there, he knew the
first movement would show itself.

The time seemed interminable. He moistened his dry lips from time to
time, shifted his position a little, and moved his elbow from the sharp
moulding of the window-frame.

Then he caught his breath.

From where he sat, in the direct line of his eyes, the top of a patch of
evergreen copse was visible just beyond the roof of the vault; and as
he looked he saw that a patch of paler green had appeared below it. All
in a moment he saw too the flying buttress crook itself like an elbow
and disappear. Then the vault was gone and the roof beyond; the walls
sank with incredible slowness and vanished.

A cloud of white dust puffed up like smoke.

Then through the open window came the roar of the tumbling masonry; and
shrill above it the clamour of a great crowd.




BOOK III

THE KING'S GRATITUDE




CHAPTER I

A SCHEME


The period that followed the destruction of Lewes Priory held very
strange months for Chris. He had slipped out of the stream into a
back-water, from which he could watch the swift movements of the time,
while himself undisturbed by them; for no further notice was taken of
his refusal to sign the surrender or of his resistance to the
Commissioners. The hands of the authorities were so full of business
that apparently it was not worth their while to trouble about an
inoffensive monk of no particular notoriety, who after all had done
little except in a negative way, and who appeared now to acquiesce in
silence and seclusion.

The household at Overfield was of a very mixed nature. Dom Anthony after
a month or two had left for the Continent to take up his vocation in a
Benedictine house; and Sir James and his wife, Chris, Margaret, and Mr.
Carleton remained together. For the present Chris and Margaret were
determined to wait, for a hundred things might intervene--Henry's death,
a changing of his mind, a foreign invasion on the part of the Catholic
powers, an internal revolt in England, and such things--and set the
clock back again, and, unlike Dom Anthony, they had a home where they
could follow their Rules in tolerable comfort.

The country was indeed very deeply stirred by the events that were
taking place; but for the present, partly from terror and partly from
the great forces that were brought to bear upon English convictions, it
gave no expression to its emotion. The methods that Cromwell had
employed with such skill in the past were still active. On the worldly
side there was held out to the people the hope of relieved taxation, of
the distribution of monastic wealth and lands; on the spiritual side the
bishops under Cranmer were zealous in controverting the old principles
and throwing doubt upon the authority of the Pope. It was impossible for
the unlearned to know what to believe; new manifestoes were issued
continually by the King and clergy, full of learned arguments and
persuasive appeals; and the professors of the old religion were
continually discredited by accusations of fraud, avarice, immorality,
hypocrisy and the like. They were silenced, too; while active and
eloquent preachers like Latimer raged from pulpit to pulpit, denouncing,
expounding, convincing.

Meanwhile the work went on rapidly. The summer and autumn of '38 saw
again destruction after destruction of Religious Houses and objects of
veneration; and the intimidation of the most influential personages on
the Catholic side.

In February, for example, the r