t were happening round them, the wicked
accusations brought against the Religious, and the Divine vengeance that
would surely fall on those who were responsible.

Finally she turned and questioned him, with a mingling of deference and
dignity.

"What do you wish from us. Mr. Torridon? You must tell me, that I may
see that everything is in order."

Ralph was secretly amused by her air of innocent assurance.

"That is my business, Reverend Mother. I must ask for all the books of
the house, with the account of any sales you may have effected, properly
recorded. I must have a list of the inmates of the house, with a
statement of any corrodies attached; and the names and ages and dates of
profession of all the Religious."

The Abbess blinked for a moment.

"Yes, Mr. Torridon. You will allow me of course to see all your papers
to-morrow; it is necessary for me to be certified that all your part is
in order."

Ralph smiled a little grimly.

"You shall see all that," he said. "And then there is more that I must
ask; but that will do for a beginning. When I have shown you my papers
you will see what it is that I want."

There was a peal at the bell outside; the Abbess turned her head and
waited till there was a noise of bolts and unlocking.

"That will be your man, sir. Will you have him in now, Mr. Torridon?"

Ralph assented.

"And then he must look at the horses to see that all is as you wish."

Mr. Morris came in a moment later, and bowed with great deference to the
little old lady, who enquired his name.

"When you have finished with your man, Mr. Torridon, perhaps you will
allow him to ring for me at the door opposite. I will go with him to see
the horses."

Mr. Morris had brought with him the mass of his master's papers, and
when he had set these out and prepared the bedroom that opened out of
the guest-parlour, he asked leave to go across and fetch the Abbess.

Ralph busied himself for half-an-hour or so in running over the Articles
and Injunctions once more, and satisfying himself that he was perfect in
his business; and he was just beginning to wonder why his servant had
not reappeared when the door opened once more, and Mr. Morris slipped
in.

"My horse is a little lame, sir," he said. "I have been putting on a
poultice."

Ralph glanced up.

"He will be fit to travel, I suppose?"

"In a day or two, Mr. Ralph."

"Well; that will do. We shall be here till Monday at least."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph could not sleep very well that night. The thought of his business
troubled him a little. It would have been easier if the Abbess had been
either more submissive or more defiant; but her air of mingled courtesy
and dignity affected him. Her innocence too had something touching in
it, and her apparent ignorance of what his visit meant. He had supped
excellently at her expense, waited on by a cheerful sister, and well
served from the kitchen and cellar; and the Reverend Mother herself had
come in and talked sensibly and bravely. He pictured to himself what
life must be like through the nunnery wall opposite--how brisk and
punctual it must be, and at the same time homely and caressing.

And it was his hand that was to pull down the first prop. There would no
doubt be three or four nuns below age who must be dismissed, and
probably there would be a few treasures to be carried off, a
processional crucifix perhaps, such as he had seen in Dr. Layton's
collection, and a rich chalice or two, used on great days. His own
sister too must be one of those who must go. How would the little old
Abbess behave herself then? What would she say? Yet he comforted
himself, as he lay there in the clean, low-ceilinged room, staring at
the tiny crockery stoup gleaming against the door-post, by recollecting
the principle on which he had come. Possibly a few innocents would have
to suffer, a few old hearts be broken; but it was for a man to take such
things in his day's work.

And then as he remembered Dr. Layton's tales, his heart grew hot and
hard again.




CHAPTER IV

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING


The enquiry was to be made in the guest-parlour on the next morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph went to mass first at nine o'clock, which was said by a priest
from the parish church who acted as chaplain to the convent; and had a
chair set for him outside the nuns' choir from which he could see the
altar and the tall pointed window; and then, after some refreshment in
the guest-parlour, spread out his papers, and sat enthroned behind a
couple of tables, as at a tribunal. Mr. Morris stood deferentially by
his chair as the examination was conducted.

Ralph was a little taken aback by the bearing of the Abbess. In the
course of the enquiry, when he was perplexed by one or two of the
records, she rose from her chair before the table, and came round to his
side, drawing up a seat as she did so; Ralph could hardly tell her to go
back, but his magisterial air was a little affected by having one whom
he almost considered as a culprit sitting judicially beside him.

"It is better for me to be here," she said. "I can explain more eas