es us,
_against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against
the rulers of the world of this darkness, against the spirits of
wickedness in the high places. Wherefore_, he continues, _take unto you
the armour of God_; and he further declares to us its nature--_the
girdle of truth, the breastplate of justice, the shoes of peace, the
shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit._

"By this, therefore, the Word of God bids us to war, but not with the
weapons of this world, for neither is His kingdom of this world; and it
is to remind you of the principles of this warfare that we have summoned
you to Our Presence."

The voice paused, and there was a rustling sigh along the seats. Then
the voice continued on a slightly higher note.

"It has ever been the wisdom of Our predecessors, as is also their duty,
while keeping silence at certain seasons, at others to speak freely the
whole counsel of God. From this duty We Ourself must not be deterred by
the knowledge of Our own weakness and ignorance, but to trust rather
that He Who has placed Us on this throne will deign to speak through Our
mouth and use Our words to His glory.

"First, then, it is necessary to utter Our sentence as to the new
movement, as men call it, which has latterly been inaugurated by the
rulers of this world.

"We are not unmindful of the blessings of peace and unity, nor do We
forget that the appearance of these things has been the fruit of much
that we have condemned. It is this appearance of peace that has deceived
many, causing them to doubt the promise of the Prince of Peace that it
is through Him alone that we have access to the Father. That true peace,
passing understanding, concerns not only the relations of men between
themselves, but, supremely, the relations of men with their Maker; and
it is in this necessary point that the efforts of the world are found
wanting. It is not indeed to be wondered at that in a world which has
rejected God this necessary matter should be forgotten. Men have
thought--led astray by seducers--that the unity of nations was the
greatest prize of this life, forgetting the words of our Saviour, Who
said that He came to bring not peace but a sword, and that it is through
many tribulations that we enter God's Kingdom. First, then, there should
be established the peace of man with God, and after that the unity of
man with man will follow. _Seek ye first_, said Jesus Christ, _the
kingdom of God--and then all these things shall be added unto you._

"First, then, We once more condemn and anathematise the opinions of
those who teach and believe the contrary of this; and we renew once more
all the condemnations uttered by Ourself or Our predecessors against all
those societies, organisations and communities that have been formed for
the furtherance of an unity on another than a divine foundation; and We
remind Our children throughout the world that it is forbidden to them to
enter or to aid or to approve in any manner whatsoever any of those
bodies named in such condemnations."

Percy moved in his seat, conscious of a touch of impatience.... The
manner was superb, tranquil and stately as a river; but the matter a
trifle banal. Here was this old reprobation of Freemasonry, repeated in
unoriginal language.

"Secondly," went on the steady voice, "We wish to make known to you Our
desires for the future; and here We tread on what many have considered
dangerous ground."

Again came that rustle. Percy saw more than one cardinal lean forward
with hand crooked at ear to hear the better. It was evident that
something important was coming.

"There are many points," went on the high voice, "of which it is not Our
intention to speak at this time, for of their own nature they are
secret, and must be treated of on another occasion. But what We say
here, We say to the world. Since the assaults of Our enemies are both
open and secret, so too must be Our defences. This then is Our
intention."

The Pope paused again, lifted one hand as if mechanically to his breast,
and grasped the cross that hung there.

"While the army of Christ is one, it consists of many divisions, each of
which has its proper function and object. In times past God has raised
up companies of His servants to do this or that particular work--the
sons of St. Francis to preach poverty, those of St. Bernard to labour in
prayer with all holy women dedicating themselves to this purpose, the
Society of Jesus for the education of youth and the conversion of the
heathen--together with all the other Religious Orders whose names are
known throughout the world. Each such company was raised up at a
particular season of need, and each has corresponded nobly with the
divine vocation. It has also been the especial glory of each, for the
furtherance of its intention, while pursuing its end, to cut off from
itself all such activities (good in themselves) which would hinder that
work for which God had called it into being--following in this matter
the words of our Redeemer, _Every branch that beareth fruit, He purgeth
it that it may bring forth more fruit._ At