uding linen fallen from breast and outstretched arms,
and then a roar, mighty beyond reckoning, as the whole
amphitheatre swayed and cried out in exultation. He saw as in a
vision the rush of doctors to the place, and the gesticulating
figures that held back the crowd behind the barrier. Then a great
moan of relief; and a profound silence as the _miracule_ kneeled
again beside the litter which had borne him. Then again the
canopy moved on; and the passionate voice cried, followed in an
instant by the roar of response:

"_Hosanna to the son of David._"

 * * * * * * *

It was half-way round, at the foot of the church steps, that the
German girl was laid; and as the prelates drew near Monsignor
looked rapidly to this side and that to identify her.

Ah! there she lay, still with closed patient eyes and colourless
face, in the outer circle facing inwards towards the pulpit. A
doctor knelt on either side of her--one of them the young man who
had announced her coming into the hall this morning, with a
rosary between his fingers. It was known to the crowd generally,
Monsignor had learnt, that her case was exceptional; but it had
been kept from them as to where she would lie, for fear that the
excitement might be too much concentrated.

He looked at her again, intently and carefully--at that waxen,
fallen face, her helpless hands clasped across her breast with a
string of beads interwoven within them; and even as he looked
distrust once more surged within him, It was impossible, he told
himself--in spite of what he had seen that day in spite of that
score of leaping figures and the infectious roar that more than
twenty times in that short journey had set his pulses
a-beat. . . . He passed her, quickening his steps a little; then
faced about and watched.

Slowly came the canopy. Its four bearers sweated visibly with
the effort; and the face of the bishop who bore the monstrance
was pale and streaked with moisture from the countless movements
he had made. Behind him came row after row of downcast faces,
men and women of every Religious Order on earth, and the tapers
seen in perspective appeared as four almost continuous waving
lines of soft light.

There had been a longer pause than usual since the last exulting
cry of a sick man healed; and the silence between the cries from
the pulpit grew continually more acute. And yet nothing happened.

The bishop was signing now outwards over a man who lay next the
German, with his face altogether hidden in a white and
loathsomely suggestive mask; but there was no stir in answer. The
bishop turned inwards and signed over a woman, and again there
was no movement.

"Thou art the Resurrection and the Life," cried the voice
from the pulpit.

"_Thou art the Resurrection and the Life,_" answered the
amphitheatre, as the bishop turned again outwards.

Monsignor heard him sigh with the effort, and with the
consciousness too, perhaps, of who it was that lay here; he
lifted the monstrance; the eyes of the girl opened. As he
signed to left and right she smiled. As he brought the
monstrance back she unclasped her hands and sat up.



(V)

The three priests stood together that evening on the high roof of
a Carmelite priory, on the other side of the river, half a mile
away, yet opposite the grotto, as the German girl came down to
make her thanksgiving.

From where they stood it was impossible to make out a single
detail of that at which they looked. The priory stood on high
ground, itself towering above the crowded roofs that lay between
them and the river; and opposite rose up the masses of the hill
at the foot of which was the sacred place itself.

It resembled to-night a picture all of fire. The churches on the
left were outlined in light, up to the last high line of roof
against the dark starlit sky; and upon the spaces in between lay
the soft glow from the tens of thousands of torches that the
crowds carried beneath. Above the grotto the precipitous face of
the cliff showed black and sombre, except where the zigzag paths
shone out in liquid wandering lines, where the folks stood packed
together, unseeing, yet content to be present. In front, at the
foot, over the lake of fire where the main body of worshippers
stood, glowed softly the cavern where Mary's feet had once
rested, and where her power had lived now far beyond the memory
of the oldest man present.

From this distance few sounds could be heard except the steady
murmur of voices of those countless thousands. It was as the
steady roll of far-off wheels or of the tide coming in over a
rocky beach; and even the sudden roar of welcome and triumph that
announced that the little procession had left the Place was soft
and harmonious. There followed a long pause.

Then, on a sudden, trumpets rang out, clear as silver,
sharpened and reverberated by the rocks from which they
sounded, and like the voice of a dreaming giant, came the great
words, articulate and distinct:--

"Magnificat anima mea Dominum."

* * * * * * * *

"And you, Monsignor," asked Dom Adrian, as they stood half an
hour later, still watching the lines of light writhe this way and
that as t