rcling observant
consciousness, the flow of slow images, the vibration of particular
thoughts, ceased and stilled as a pool rocks quietly to peace after the
dropped stone has long lain still. But it came at last--that superb
tranquillity, possible only when the senses are physically awake, with
which God, perhaps once in a lifetime, rewards the aspiring trustful
soul--that point of complete rest in the heart of the Fount of all
existence with which one day He will reward eternally the spirits of His
children. There was no thought in him of articulating this experience,
of analysing its elements, or fingering this or that strain of ecstatic
joy. The time for self-regarding was passed. It was enough that the
experience was there, although he was not even self-reflective enough to
tell himself so. He had passed from that circle whence the soul looks
within, from that circle, too, whence it looks upon objective glory, to
that very centre where it reposes--and the first sign to him that time
had passed was the murmur of words, heard distinctly and understood,
although with that apartness with which a drowsy man perceives a message
from without--heard as through a veil through which nothing but thinnest
essence could transpire.

_Spiritus Domini replevit orbem terrarum.... The Spirit of the Lord hath
fulfilled all things, alleluia: and that which contains all things hath
knowledge of the voice, alleluia, alleluia, alleluia._

_Exsurgat Deus_ (and the voice rose ever so slightly). "_Let God arise
and let His enemies be scattered; and let them who hate Him flee before
His face._"

_Gloria Patri...._

Then he raised his heavy head; and a phantom figure stood there in red
vestments, seeming to float rather than to stand, with thin hands
outstretched, and white cap on white hair seen in the gleam of the
steady candle-flames; another, also in white, kneeled on the step....

_Kyrie eleison ... Gloria in excelsis Deo ..._ those things passed like
a shadow-show, with movements and rustlings, but he perceived rather the
light which cast them. He heard _Deus qui in hodierna die ..._ but his
passive mind gave no pulse of reflex action, no stir of understanding
until these words. _Cum complerentur dies Pentecostes...._

"_When the day of Pentecost was fully come, all the disciples were with
one accord in the same place; and there came from heaven suddenly a
sound, as of a mighty wind approaching, and it filled the house where
they were sitting.... _"

Then he remembered and understood.... It was Pentecost then! And with
memory a shred of reflection came back. Where then was the wind, and the
flame, and the earthquake, and the secret voice? Yet the world was
silent, rigid in its last effort at self-assertion: there was no tremor
to show that God remembered; no actual point of light, yet, breaking the
appalling vault of gloom that lay over sea and land to reveal that He
burned there in eternity, transcendent and dominant; not even a voice;
and at that he understood yet more. He perceived that that world, whose
monstrous parody his sleep had presented to him in the night, was other
than that he had feared it to be; it was sweet, not terrible; friendly,
not hostile; clear, not stifling; and home, not exile. There were
presences here, but not those gluttonous, lustful things that had looked
on him last night.... He dropped his head again upon his hands, at once
ashamed and content; and again he sank down to depths of glimmering
inner peace....

* * * * *

Not again, for a while, did he perceive what he did or thought, or what
passed there, five yards away on the low step. Once only a ripple passed
across that sea of glass, a ripple of fire and sound like a rising star
that flicks a line of light across a sleeping lake, like a thin thread
of vibration streaming from a quivering string across the stillness of a
deep night--and be perceived for an instant as in a formless mirror that
a lower nature was struck into existence and into union with the Divine
nature at the same moment.... And then no more again but the great
encompassing hush, the sense of the innermost heart of reality, till he
found himself kneeling at the rail, and knew that That which alone truly
existed on earth approached him with the swiftness of thought and the
ardour of Divine Love....

Then, as the mass ended, and he raised his passive happy soul to receive
the last gift of God, there was a cry, a sudden clamour in the passage,
and a man stood in the doorway, gabbling Arabic.




III

Yet even at that sound and sight his soul scarcely tightened the languid
threads that united it through every fibre of his body with the world of
sense. He saw and heard the tumult in the passage, frantic eyes and
mouths crying aloud, and, in strange contrast, the pale ecstatic faces
of those princes who turned and looked; even within the tranquil
presence-chamber of the spirit where two beings, Incarnate God and all
but Discarnate Man, were locked in embrace, a certain mental process
went on. Yet all was still as apart from him as a lighted stage and its
drama from a self-contained spectator. In th