hen run swiftly back to the house.

There was something sinister in the man's very movements across that
little space; he ran desperately, with his head craning forward; once he
stumbled; once he glanced up at his master; and Ralph caught a sight of
his face.

Ralph was on the landing as the steps thundered upstairs, and met him at
the head of the flight.

"Speak man; what is it?"

The servant lifted a face stamped with terror, a couple of feet below
Ralph's.

"They--they say--"

"What is it?"

"They say that the King's archers are about my Lord Essex's house."

Ralph drew a swift breath.

"Well?"

"And that my Lord was arrested at the Council to-day."

Ralph turned, and in three steps was in his room again. The key clacked
in the lock.




CHAPTER VII

A QUESTION OF LOYALTY


He did not know how long he stood there, with the bundle of papers
gripped in his two hands; and the thoughts racing through his brain.

The noises in the street outside waned and waxed again, as the news
swept down the lanes, and recoiled with a wave of excited crowds
following it. Then again they died to a steady far-off murmur as the mob
surged and clamoured round the Palace and Abbey a couple of hundred
yards away.

At last Ralph sat down; still holding the papers. He must clear his
brain; and how was that possible with the images flashing through it in
endless and vivid succession? For a while he could not steady himself;
the shock was bewildering; he could think of nothing but the appalling
drama. Essex was fallen!

Then little by little the muddy current of thought began to run clear.
He began to understand what lay before him; and the question that still
awaited decision.

His first instinct had been to dash the papers on to the fire and grind
them into the red heart of the wood; but something had checked him. Very
slowly he began to analyse that instinct.

First, was it not useless? He knew he did not possess one hundredth part
of the incriminating evidence that was in existence. Of what service
would it be to his master to destroy that one small bundle?

Next, what would be the result to himself if he did? It was known that
he was a trusted agent of the minister's; his house would be searched;
papers would be found; it would be certainly known that he had made away
with evidence. There would be records of what he had, in the other
houses. And what then?

On the other hand if he willingly gave up all that was in his
possession, it would go far to free him from complicity.

Lastly, like a venomous snake lifting its head, his own private
resentment looked him in the eyes, and there was a new sting added to it
now. He had lost all, he knew well enough; wealth, honour and position
had in a moment shrunk to cinders with Cromwell's fall, and for these
cinders he had lost Beatrice too. He had sacrificed her to his master;
and his master had failed him. A kind of fury succeeded to his dismay.

Oh, would it not be sweet to add even one more stone to the mass that
was tottering over the head of that mighty bully, that had promised and
not performed?

He blinked his eyes, shocked by the horror of the thought, and gripped
the bundle yet more firmly. The memories of a thousand kindnesses
received from his master cried at the door of his heart. The sweat
dropped from his forehead; he lifted a stiff hand to wipe it away, and
dropped it again into its grip on the papers.

Then he slowly recapitulated to himself the reasons for not destroying
them. They were overwhelming, convincing! What was there to set against
them? One slender instinct only, that cried shrill and thin that in
honour he must burn that damning evidence--burn it--burn it--whether or
no it would help or hinder, it must be burnt!

Then again he recurred to the other side; told himself that his
instinct was no more than a ludicrous sentimentality; he must be guided
by reason, not impulse. Then he glanced at the impulse again. Then the
two sides rushed together, locked in conflict. He moaned a little, and
lay back in his chair.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bright sunlight outside had faded to a mellow evening atmosphere
before he moved again; and the fire had died to one dull core of
incandescence.

As he stirred, he became aware that bells were pealing outside; a
melodious roar filled the air. Somewhere behind the house five brazen
voices, shouting all together, bellowed the exultation of the city over
the great minister's fall.

He was weary and stiff as he stood up; but the fever had left his brain;
and the decision had been made. He relaxed his fingers and laid the
bundle softly down on the table from which he had snatched it a couple
of hours before.

They would be here soon, he knew; he wondered they had not come already.

Leaving his papers there, he went out, taking the key with him, and
locking the door after him. He called up one of his men, telling him he
would be ready for supper immediately in the parlour downstairs, and
that any visitors who came for him were to be admitted at once.

Then he passed into his bedroom to wash and change his clothes.

       *       * 