with the
riding-cane who had been the first to enter; and as he emerged into the
court Chris recognised his brother.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was in a plain rich riding-suit with great boots and plumed hat. He
walked with an easy air as if certain of himself, and neither quickened
nor decreased his pace as he saw the monks and the gentlemen standing
there.

He halted a couple of yards from them, and Chris saw that his face was
as assured as his gait. His thin lips were tight and firm, and his eyes
with a kind of insolent irony looked up and down the figures of the
monks. There was not the faintest sign of recognition in them.

"You have given us a great deal of labour," he said, "and to no purpose.
We shall have to report it all to my Lord Cromwell. I understand that
you were the two who refused to sign the surrender. It was the act of
fools, like this last. I have no authority to take you, so you had best
be gone."

Dom Anthony answered him in an equally steady voice.

"We are ready to go now," he said. "You understand we have yielded to
nothing but force."

Ralph's lips writhed in a smile.

"Oh! if that pleases you," he said. "Well, then--"

He took a little step aside, and made a movement towards the gate where
there sounded out still an angry hum beneath the shouting voice that was
addressing them.

Chris turned to his father behind, and the voice died in his throat, so
dreadful was that face that was looking at Ralph. He was standing as
before, rigid it seemed with grief or anger; and his grey eyes were
bright with a tense emotion; his lips too were as firm as his son's. But
he spoke no word. Sir Nicholas was at his side, with one foot advanced,
and in attitude as if to spring; and Morris's face looked like a mask
over his shoulder.

"Well, then--" said Ralph once more.

"Ah! you damned hound!" roared the young squire's voice; and his hand
went up with the whip in it.

Ralph did not move a muscle. He seemed cut in steel.

"Let us go," said Dom Anthony again, to Chris, almost tenderly; "it is
enough that we are turned out by force."

"You can go by the church, if you will," said Ralph composedly. "In
fact--" He stopped as the murmur howled up again from the gate--"In
fact you had better go that way. They do not seem to be your friends out
there."

"We will go whichever way you wish," remarked the elder monk.

"Then the church," said Ralph, "or some other private door. I suppose
you have one. Most of your houses have one, I believe."

The sneer snapped the tension.

Dom Anthony turned his back on him instantly.

"Come, brother," he said.

Chris took his father by the arm as he went up the steps.

"Come, sir," he said, "we are to go this way."

There was a moment's pause. The old man still stared down at his elder
son, who was standing below in the same position. Chris heard a deep
breath, and thought he was on the point of speaking; but there was
silence. Then the two turned and followed the others into the cloister.




CHAPTER VII

AXES AND HAMMERS


Chris sat next morning at a high window of a house near Saint Michael's
looking down towards the south of the town.

They had escaped without difficulty the night before through the
church-entrance, with a man whom Ralph sent after them to see that they
carried nothing away, leaving the crowd roaring round the corner of the
gate, and though people looked curiously at the monks, the five laymen
with them protected them from assault. Mr. Morris had found a lodging a
couple of days before, unknown to Chris, in the house of a woman who was
favourable to the Religious, and had guided the party straight there on
the previous evening.

The two monks had said mass in Saint Michael's that morning before the
town was awake; and were now keeping within doors at Sir James's earnest
request, while the two gentlemen with one of the servants had gone to
see what was being done at the priory.

       *       *       *       *       *

From where Chris sat in his black habit at the leaded window he could
see straight down the opening of the steep street, across the lower
roofs below, to where the great pile of the Priory church less than
half-a-mile away soared up in the sunlight against the water-meadows
where the Ouse ran to the south of the town.

The street was very empty below him, for every human being that could
do so had gone down to the sacking of the priory. There might be
pickings, scraps gathered from the hoards that the monks were supposed
to have gathered; there would probably be an auction; and there would
certainly be plenty of excitement and pleasure.

Chris was himself almost numb to sensation. The coolness that had
condensed round his soul last night had hardened into ice; he scarcely
realised what was going on, or how great was the catastrophe into which
his life was plunged. There lay the roofs before him--he ran his eye
from the west tower past the high lantern to the delicate tracery of the
eastern apse and chapels--in the hands of the spoilers; and here he sat
dry-eyed and steady-mouthed looking down on it, as a man looks at a
wound not yet begun