 secretly to know my poor advice and opinion, which I most gladly
was, and ever will be, ready to offer to him when so commanded, methinks
it very hard to allow the same as sufficient testimony against me, to
prove me guilty of high treason."

Rich excused himself by affirming that he said or did nothing more than
what the King commanded him to do; and the trial ended by the bishop's
condemnation.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Chris waited by the scaffold he prayed almost incessantly. There was
sufficient spur for prayer in the menacing fortress before him with its
hundred tiny windows, and the new scaffold, some five or six feet high,
that stood in the foreground. He wondered how the bishop was passing his
time and thought he knew. The long grey wall beyond the moat, and the
towers that rose above it, were suggestive in their silent strength.
From where he stood too he could catch a glimpse of the shining reaches
of the river with the green slopes on the further side; and the freedom
and beauty of the sight, the delicate haze that hung over the water, the
birds winging their way across, the boats plying to and fro, struck a
vivid contrast to the grim fatality of the prison and the scaffold.

A bell sounded out somewhere from the Tower, and a ripple ran through
the crowd. There was an immensely tall man a few yards from Chris, and
Chris could see his face turn suddenly towards the lower ground by the
river where the gateway rose up dark against the bright water. The man's
face suddenly lighted with interest, and Chris saw his lips move and his
eyes become intent. Then a surging movement began, and the monk was
swept away to the left by the packed crowd round him. There were faces
lining the wall and opposite, and all were turned one way. A great
murmur began to swell up, and a woman beside him turned white and began
to sob quietly.

His eyes caught a bright point of light that died again, flashed out,
and resolved itself into a gleaming line of halberds, moving on towards
the right above the heads, up the slope to the scaffold. He saw a horse
toss his head; and then a feathered cap or two swaying behind.

Then for one instant between the shifting heads in front he caught sight
of a lean face framed in a flapped cap swaying rhythmically as if borne
on a chair. It vanished again.

The flashing line of halberds elongated itself, divided, and came
between the scaffold and him; and the murmur of the crowd died to a
heart-shaking silence. A solemn bell clanged out again from the interior
of the prison, and Chris, his wet hands knit together, began to count
the strokes mechanically, staring at the narrow rail of the scaffold,
and waiting for the sight that he knew would come. Then again he was
swept along a yard or two to the right, and when he had recovered his
feet a man was on the scaffold, bending forwards and gesticulating.
Another head rose into the line of vision, and this man too turned
towards the steps up which he had come, and stood, one hand
outstretched.

Again a murmur and movement began; Chris had to look to his foothold,
and when he raised his head again a solemn low roar was rising up and
swelling, of pity and excitement, for, silhouetted against the sunlit
Tower behind, stood the man for whose sake all were there.

He was in a black gown and tippet, and carried his two hands clasped to
his breast; and in them was a book and a crucifix. His cap was on his
head, and the white face, incredibly thin, looked out over the heads of
the crowd.

Chris hardly noticed that the scaffold was filling with people, until a
figure came forward, in black, with a masked face, and bowed
deferentially to the bishop; and in an instant silence fell again.

He saw the bishop turn and bow slightly in return, and in the stillness
that wonderful voice sounded out, with the clear minuteness of words
spoken in the open air, clear and penetrating over the whole ground.

"I forgive you very heartily; and I hope you will see me overcome this
storm lustily."

The black figure fell back, and the bishop stood hesitating, looking
this way and that as if for direction.

The Lieutenant of the Tower came forward; but Chris could only see his
lips move, as a murmur had broken out again at the bishop's answer; but
he signed with his hand and stepped behind the prisoner.

The bishop nodded, lifted his hand and took off his cap; and his white
hair appeared; then he fumbled at his throat, holding the book and
crucifix in his other hand; and, with the Lieutenant's help, slipped off
his tippet and loose gown; and as he freed himself, and stood in his
doublet and hose, a great sobbing cry of horror and compassion rose from
the straining faces, for he seemed scarcely to be a living man, so
dreadful was his emaciation. Above that lean figure of death looked out
the worn old face, serene and confident. He was again holding the book
and crucifix clasped to his breast, as he stepped to the edge of the
scaffold.

The cry died to a murmur and ceased abruptly as he began his speech,
every word of which was audible.

"Christian people," he began, "I am 