everywhere were thronged with
those who had been holders of corrodies, or daily sustenance in the
houses; as well as with the evicted Religious, some of whom, dismissed
against their will, were on their way to the universities, where, in
spite of the Visitation, it was thought that support was still to be
had; and others, less reputable, who preferred freedom to monastic
discipline. Yet others were to be met with, though not many in number,
who were on their way to London to lay complaints of various kinds
against their superiors.

From these and like events the whole country was astir. Men gathered in
groups outside the village inns and discussed the situation, and feeling
ran high on the movements of the day. What chiefly encouraged the
malcontents was the fact that the benefits to be gained by the
dissolution of the monasteries were evident and present, while the
ill-results lay in the future. The great Religious Houses, their farms
and stock, the jewels of the treasury, were visible objects; men
actually laid eyes on them as they went to and from their work or knelt
at mass on Sundays; it was all so much wealth that did not belong to
them, and that might do so, while the corrodies, the daily hospitality,
the employment of labour, and such things, lay either out of sight, or
affected only certain individuals. Characters too that were chiefly
stirred by such arguments, were those of the noisy and self-assertive
faction; while those who saw a little deeper into things, and understood
the enormous charities of the Religious Houses and the manner in which
extreme poverty was kept in check by them,--even more, those who valued
the spiritual benefits that flowed from the fact of their existence, and
saw how life was kindled and inspired by these vast homes of
prayer--such, then as always, were those who would not voluntarily put
themselves forward in debate, or be able, when they did so, to use
arguments that would appeal to the village gatherings. Their natural
leaders too, the country clergy, who alone might have pointed out
effectively the considerations that lay beneath the surface had been
skilfully and peremptorily silenced by the episcopal withdrawing of all
preaching licenses.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the course of Ralph's travels he came across, more than once, a hot
scene in the village inn, and was able to use his own personality and
prestige as a King's Visitor in the direction that he wished.

He came for example one Saturday night to the little village of
Maresfield, near Fletching, and after seeing his horses and servants
bestowed, came into the parlour, where the magnates were assembled.
There were half a dozen there, sitting round the fire, who rose
respectfully as the great gentleman strode in, and eyed him with a
sudden awe as they realised from the landlord's winks and whispers that
he was of a very considerable importance.

From the nature of his training Ralph had learnt how to deal with all
conditions of men; and by the time that he had finished supper, and
drawn his chair to the fire, they were talking freely again, as indeed
he had encouraged them to do, for they did not of course, any more than
the landlord, guess at his identity or his business there.

Ralph soon brought the talk round again to the old subject, and asked
the opinions of the company as to the King's policy in the visitation of
the Religious Houses There was a general silence when he first opened
the debate, for they were dangerous times; but the gentleman's own
imperturbable air, his evident importance, and his friendliness,
conspired with the strong beer to open their mouths, and in five minutes
they were at it.

One, a little old man in the corner who sat with crossed legs, nursing
his mug, declared that to his mind the whole thing was sacrilege; the
houses, he said, had been endowed to God's glory and service, and that
to turn them to other uses must bring a curse on the country. He went on
to remark--for Ralph deftly silenced the chorus of protest--that his own
people had been buried in the church of the Dominican friars at Arundel
for three generations, and that he was sorry for the man who laid hands
on the tomb of his grandfather--known as Uncle John--for the old man had
been a desperate churchman in his day, and would undoubtedly revenge
himself for any indignity offered to his bones.

Ralph pointed out, with a considerate self-repression, that the
illustration was scarcely to the point, for the King's Grace had no
intention, he believed, of disturbing any one's bones; the question at
issue rather regarded flesh and blood. Then a chorus broke out, and the
hunt was up.

One, the butcher, with many blessings invoked on King Harry's head,
declared that the country was being sucked dry by these rapacious
ecclesiastics; that the monks encroached every year on the common land,
absorbed the little farms, paid inadequate wages, and--which appeared
his principal grievance--killed their own meat.

Ralph, with praiseworthy tolerance, pushed this last argument aside, but
appeared to reflect on the others as if they wer