ed themselves
in such things as tending to despise secular life, feeling impatient
with the poor to whom he had to minister, in sneering in his heart at
least at anxious fussy men who came to arrange for masses, at
troublesome women who haunted the sacristy door in a passion of
elaborateness, and at comfortable families who stamped into high mass
and filled a seat and a half, but who had yet their spiritual burdens
and their claims to honour.

But he was to be brought rudely down to facts again. He was beginning to
forget that England was about him and stirring in her agony; and he was
reminded of it with some force in the winter after his profession.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was going out to the gate-house one day on an errand from the
junior-master when he became aware of an unusual stir in the court.
There were a couple of palfreys there, and half-a-dozen mules behind,
whilst three or four strange monks with a servant or two stood at their
bridles.

Chris stopped to consider, for he had no business with guests; and as he
hesitated the door of the guest-house opened, and two prelates came out
with Dom Anthony behind them--tall, stately men in monks' habits with
furred cloaks and crosses. Chris slipped back at once into the cloister
from which he had just come out, and watched them go past to the Prior's
lodging.

They appeared at Vespers that afternoon again, sitting in the first
returned stalls near the Prior, and Chris recognised one of them as the
great Abbot of Colchester. He looked at him now and again during Vespers
with a reverential awe, for the Abbot was a great man, a spiritual peer
of immense influence and reputation, and watched that fatherly face,
his dignified bows and stately movements, and the great sapphire that
shone on his hand as he turned the leaves of his illuminated book.

The two prelates were at supper, sitting on either side of the Prior on
the dais; and afterwards the monks were called earlier than usual from
recreation into the chapter-house.

The Prior made them a little speech saying that the Abbot had something
to say to them, and then sat down; his troubled eyes ran over the faces
of his subjects, and his fingers twitched and fidgetted on his knees.

The Abbot did not make them a long discourse; but told them briefly that
there was trouble coming; he spoke in veiled terms of the Act of
Supremacy, and the serious prayer that was needed; he said that a time
of testing was close at hand, and that every man must scrutinise his own
conscience and examine his motives; and that the unlearned had better
follow the advice and example of their superiors.

It was all very vague and unsatisfactory; but Chris became aware of
three things. First, that the world was very much alive and could not be
dismissed by a pious aspiration or two; second, that the world was about
to make some demand that would have to be seriously dealt with, and
third, that there was nothing really to fear so long as their souls were
clean and courageous. The Abbot was a melting speaker, full at once of a
fatherly tenderness and vehemence, and as Chris looked at him he felt
that indeed there was nothing to fear so long as monks had such
representatives and protectors as these, and that the world had better
look to itself for fear it should dash itself to ruin against such rocks
of faith and holiness.

But as the spring drew on, an air of suspense and anxiety made itself
evident in the house. News came down that More and Fisher were still in
prison, that the oath was being administered right and left, that the
King had thrown aside all restraints, and that the civil breach with
Rome seemed in no prospect of healing. As for the spiritual breach the
monks did not seriously consider it yet; they regarded themselves as
still in union with the Holy See whatever their rulers might say or do,
and only prayed for the time when things might be as before and there
should be no longer any doubt or hesitation in the minds of weak
brethren.

But the Prior's face grew more white and troubled, and his temper
uncertain.

Now and again he would make them speeches assuring them fiercely that
all was well, and that all they had to do was to be quiet and obedient;
and now he would give way to a kind of angry despair, tell them that all
was lost, that every man would have to save himself; and then for days
after such an exhibition he would be silent and morose, rapping his
fingers softly as he sat at his little raised table in the refectory,
walking with downcast eyes up and down the cloister muttering and
staring.

Towards the end of April he sent abruptly for Chris, told him that he
had news from London that made his presence there necessary, and ordered
him to be ready to ride with him in a week or two.




CHAPTER X

THE ARENA


It was in the evening of a warm May day that the Prior and Chris arrived
at the hostelry in Southwark, which belonged to Lewes Priory.

It was on the south side of Kater Lane, opposite St. Olave's church, a
great house built of stone with arched gates, with a large porch opening
straight into the hall, w