he King's Visitors, and assisted in the--the destruction of
Lewes priory; and that, my Lord, is a sufficient--"

Sir James gave a sudden sob.

"Mr. Herries, Mr. Herries--"

Cranmer turned to him smiling.

"I know what you feel, sir," he said. "But if this is true--"

"Why, it is true! God help him," cried the old man.

"Then that is what we need, sir; as you said just now. Yes, Mr.
Herries?"

The lawyer glanced at the old man again.

"That is sufficient guarantee, my Lord, that Mr. Ralph Torridon is no
enemy of his Grace's projects."

"I cannot bear that!" cried Sir James.

Nicholas, who had been looking awed and open-mouthed from one to the
other, took him by the arm.

"You must, father," he said. "It--it is devilish; but it is true. Chris,
have you nothing?"

The monk came forward a step.

"It is true, my Lord," he said. "I was a monk of Lewes myself."

"And you have conformed," put in the Archbishop swiftly.

"I am living at home peaceably," said Chris; "it is true that my brother
did all this, but--but my father wishes that it should not be used in
his cause."

"If it is true," said the Archbishop, "it is best to say it. We want
nothing but the bare truth."

"But I cannot bear it," cried the old man again.

Chris came round behind the Archbishop to his father.

"Will you leave it, father, to my Lord Archbishop? My Lord understands
what we think."

Sir James looked at him, dazed and bewildered.

"God help us! Do you think so, Chris."

"I think so, father. My Lord, you understand all?"

The Archbishop's bowed again slightly.

"Then, my Lord, we will leave it all in your hands."

There was a tap at the door.

The Archbishop rose.

"That is our signal," he said. "Come, gentlemen, his Grace will be ready
immediately."

Mr. Herries sprang to the door and opened it, bowing as the Archbishop
went through, followed by Sir James and Nicholas. He and Chris followed
after.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a kind of dull recklessness in the monk's heart as he went
through. He knew that he was in more peril than any of the others, and
yet he did not fear it. The faculty of fear had been blunted, not
sharpened, by his experiences; and he passed on towards the King's
presence, almost without a tremor.

The room was empty, except for a page by the further door, who opened it
as the party advanced; and beyond was a wide lobby, with doors all
round, and a staircase on the right as they came out. The Archbishop
made a little motion to the others as he went up, gathering his skirts
about him, and acknowledging with his disengaged hand the salute of the
sentry that stood in the lobby.

At the top of the stairs was a broad landing; then a corridor through
which they passed, and on. They turned to the left, and as they went it
was apparent that they were near the royal apartments. There were thick
leather rugs lying here and there; along the walls stood magnificent
pieces of furniture, inlaid tables with tall dragon-jars upon them,
suits of Venetian armour elaborately worked in silver, and at the door
of every room that opened on the corridor there was standing a sentry or
a servant, who straightened themselves at the sight of the Archbishop.
He carefully acknowledged each salutation, and nodded kindly once or
twice.

There was a heavy odour in the air, warm and fragrant, as of mingled
stuffs and musk, which even the wide windows set open towards the garden
on the right hand did not wholly obliterate.

For the first time since leaving Charing, Chris's heart quickened. The
slow stages of approach to the formidable presence had begun to do their
work; if he had seen the King at once he would not have been moved; if
he had had an hour longer, he would have recovered from his emotion; but
this swift ordered approach, the suggestiveness of the thick carpets
and furniture, the sight of the silent figures waiting, the musky smell
in the air, all combined now to work upon him; he began to fancy that he
was drawing nearer the presence of some great carrion-beast that had
made its den here, that was guarded by these discreet servitors, and to
which this smooth prelate, in the rôle of the principal keeper, was
guiding him. Any of these before him might mark the sanctuary of the
labyrinth, where the creature lurked; one might open, and a savage face
look out, dripping blood and slaver.

A page threw back a door at last, and they passed through; but again
there was a check. It was but one more waiting room. The dozen persons,
folks of all sorts, a lawyer, a soldier, and others stood up and bowed
to the prelate.

Then the party sat down near the further door in dead silence, and the
minutes began to pass.

There were cries from the river once or twice as they waited; once a
footstep vibrated through the door, and twice a murmur of voices sounded
and died again.

Then suddenly a hand was laid on the handle from the other side, and the
Archbishop rose, with Sir James beside him.

There was still a pause. Then a voice sounded loud and near, and there
was a general movement in the room as all rose to their feet. The door
swung open and the Ga