sh correspondents. Hitherto he had received some dozen letters, and
not one of them had been without its grain of gold. Especially he had
noticed that one warning ran through them all, namely, that sooner or
later there would be some overt act of provocation on the part of
English Catholics; and it was the memory of this that had inspired his
vehement entreaties to the Pope this morning. As in the Roman and
African persecutions of the first three centuries, so now, the greatest
danger to the Catholic community lay not in the unjust measures of the
Government but in the indiscreet zeal of the faithful themselves. The
world desired nothing better than a handle to its blade. The scabbard
was already cast away.

When the young man had brought the four closely written sheets, dated
from Westminster, the previous evening, Percy turned at once to the last
paragraph before the usual Recommendations.

"Mr. Brand's late secretary, Mr. Phillips, whom your Eminence commended
to me, has been to see me two or three times. He is in a curious state.
He has no faith; yet, intellectually, he sees no hope anywhere but in
the Catholic Church. He has even begged for admission to the Order of
Christ Crucified, which of course is impossible. But there is no doubt
he is sincere; otherwise he would have professed Catholicism. I have
introduced him to many Catholics in the hope that they may help him. I
should much wish your Eminence to see him."

Before leaving England, Percy had followed up the acquaintance he had
made so strangely over Mrs. Brand's reconciliation to God, and, scarcely
knowing why, had commended him to the priest. He had not been
particularly impressed by Mr. Phillips; he had thought him a timid,
undecided creature, yet he had been struck by the extremely unselfish
action by which the man had forfeited his position. There must surely be
a good deal behind.

And now the impulse had come to send for him. Perhaps the spiritual
atmosphere of Rome would precipitate faith. In any case, the
conversation of Mr. Brand's late secretary might be instructive.

He struck the bell again.

"Mr. Brent," he said, "in your next letter to Father Blackmore, tell him
that I wish to see the man whom he proposed to send--Mr. Phillips."

"Yes, Eminence."

"There is no hurry. He can send him at his leisure."

"Yes, Eminence."

"But he must not come till January. That will be time enough, unless
there is urgent reason."

"Yes, Eminence."

* * * * *

The development of the Order of Christ Crucified had gone forward with
almost miraculous success. The appeal issued by the Holy Father
throughout Christendom had been as fire among stubble. It seemed as if
the Christian world had reached exactly that point of tension at which a
new organisation of this nature was needed, and the response had
startled even the most sanguine. Practically the whole of Rome with its
suburbs--three millions in all--had run to the enrolling stations in
St. Peter's as starving men run to food, and desperate to the storming
of a breach. For day after day the Pope himself had sat enthroned below
the altar of the Chair, a glorious, radiant figure, growing ever white
and weary towards evening, imparting his Blessing with a silent sign to
each individual of the vast crowd that swarmed up between the barriers,
fresh from fast and Communion, to kneel before his new Superior and kiss
the Pontifical ring. The requirements had been as stringent as
circumstances allowed. Each postulant was obliged to go to confession to
a specially authorised priest, who examined sharply into motives and
sincerity, and only one-third of the applicants had been accepted. This,
the authorities pointed out to the scornful, was not an excessive
proportion; for it was to be remembered that most of those who had
presented themselves had already undergone a sifting fierce as fire. Of
the three millions in Rome, two millions at least were exiles for their
faith, preferring to live obscure and despised in the shadow of God
rather than in the desolate glare of their own infidel countries.

On the fifth evening of the enrolment of novices an astonishing incident
had taken place. The old King of Spain (Queen Victoria's second son),
already on the edge of the grave, had just risen and tottered before his
Ruler; it seemed for an instant as if he would fall, when the Pope
himself, by a sudden movement, had risen, caught him in his arms and
kissed him; and then, still standing, had spread his arms abroad and
delivered a _fervorino_ such as never had been heard before in the
history of the basilica.

"_Benedictus Dominus!_" he cried, with upraised face and shining eyes.
"Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for He hath visited and redeemed His
people. I, John, Vicar of Christ, Servant of Servants, and sinner among
sinners, bid you be of good courage in the Name of God. By Him Who hung
on the Cross, I promise eternal life to all who persevere in His Order.
He Himself has said it. _To him that overcometh I will give a crown of
life._

"Little children; fear not him that killeth the body. There is no more
that he can do. God and His M