ants and all else who cared to offer
evidence on other matters, were questioned one by one and their answers
entered in a book. Lastly, when the fees for the Visitation had been
collected, arrangements had been made, which in the Visitors' opinion,
would be most serviceable to the carrying out of the injunctions; fresh
officials were appointed to various posts, and the Abbot himself
ordered to go up to London and present himself to Master Cromwell; but
he was furnished with a letter commending his zeal and discretion, for
the Visitors had found that he had done his duty to the buildings and
lands; and stated that they had nothing to complain of except the
poverty of the house.

"And so much for Durford," said Layton genially, as he closed the last
book just before dinner-time, "though it had been better called
Dirtyford." And he chuckled at his humour.

After dinner he had gone out with Ralph to see him mount; had thanked
him for his assistance, and had reminded him that they would meet again
at Lewes in the course of a month or so.

"God speed you!" he cried as the party rode off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph's fury had died to a glow, but it was red within him; the reading
last night had done its work well, driven home by the shrewd conviction
of a man of the world, experienced in the ways of vice. It had not died
with the dark. He could not say that he was attracted to Dr. Layton; the
priest's shocking familiarity with the more revolting forms of sin, as
well as his under-breeding and brutality, made him a disagreeable
character; but Ralph had very little doubt now that his judgment on the
religious houses was a right one. Even the nunneries, it seemed, were
not free from taint; there had been one or two terrible tales on the
previous evening; and Ralph was determined to spare them nothing, and at
any rate to remove his sister from their power. He remembered with
satisfaction that she was below the age specified, and that he would
have authority to dismiss her from the home.

He knew very little of Margaret; and had scarcely seen her once in two
years. He had been already out in the world before she had ceased to be
a child, and from what little he had seen of her he had thought of her
but as little more than a milk-and-water creature, very delicate and
shy, always at her prayers, or trailing about after nuns with a pale
radiant face. She had been sent to Rusper for her education, and he
never saw her except now and then when they chanced to be at home
together for a few days. She used to look at him, he remembered, with
awe-stricken eyes and parted lips, hardly daring to speak when he was in
the room, continually to be met with going from or to the tall quiet
chapel.

He had always supposed that she would be a nun, and had acquiesced in it
in a cynical sort of way; but he was going to acquiesce no longer now.
Of course she would sob, but equally of course she would not dare to
resist.

He called Morris up to him presently as they emerged from one of the
bridle paths on to a kind of lane where two could ride abreast. The
servant had seemed oddly silent that morning.

"We are going to Rusper," said Ralph.

"Yes, sir."

"Mistress Margaret is there."

"Yes, sir."

"She will come away with us. I may have to send you on to Overfield with
her. You must find a horse for her somehow."

"Yes, sir."

There was silence between the two for a minute or two. Mr. Morris had
answered with as much composure as if he had been told to brush a coat.
Ralph began to wonder what he really felt.

"What do you think of all this, Morris?" he asked in a moment or two.

The servant was silent, till Ralph glanced at him impatiently.

"It is not for me to have an opinion, sir," said Mr Morris.

Ralph gave a very short laugh.

"You haven't heard what I have," he said, "or you would soon have an
opinion."

"Yes, sir," said Morris as impassively as before.

"I tell you--" and then Ralph broke off, and rode on silent and moody.
Mr. Morris gradually let his horse fall back behind his master.

       *       *       *       *       *

They began to come towards Rusper as the evening drew in, by a bridle
path that led from the west, and on arriving at the village found that
they had overshot their mark, and ought to have turned sooner. The
nunnery, a man told them, was a mile away to the south-west. Ralph made
a few enquiries, and learnt that it was a smallish house, and that it
was scarcely likely that room could be found for his party of four; so
he left Morris to make enquiries for lodgings in the village, and
himself rode on alone to the nunnery, past the church and the
timberhouses.

It was a bad road, and his tired horse had to pick his way very slowly,
so that it was nearly dark before he came to his destination, and the
pointed roofs rose before him against the faintly luminous western sky.
There were lights in one or two windows as he came up that looked warm
and homely in the chill darkness; and as he sat on his horse listening
to the jangle of the bell within, just a breath of doubtfulness touched
his heart for a moment as he t