d of God," cried the statesman, speaking with extraordinary
fervour, his eyes kindling as he looked round the silent crowded
benches, and his left hand playing with his chain, "On the Word of God
His Highness' princely mind is fixed; on this Word he depends for his
sole support; and with all his might his Majesty will labour that error
shall be taken away, and true doctrines be taught to his people,
modelled by the rule of the Gospel."

Three days later when Ralph came into his master's room, Cromwell looked
up at him with a strange animation in his dark eyes.

"Good-day, sir," he said; "I have news that I hope will please you. His
Grace intends to confer on me one more mark of his favour. I am to be
Earl of Essex."

It was startling news. Ralph had supposed that the minister was not
standing so high with the King as formerly, since the unfortunate
incident of the Cleves marriage. He congratulated him warmly.

"It is a happy omen," said the other. "Let us pray that it be a
constellation and not a single star. There are others of my friends, Mr.
Torridon, who have claim to His Highness' gratitude."

He looked at him smiling; and Ralph felt his heart quicken once more, as
it always did, at the hint of an honour for himself.

The business of Parliament went on; and several important bills became
law. A land-act was followed by one that withdrew from most of the towns
of England the protection of a sanctuary in the case of certain
specified crimes; the navy was dealt with; and then in spite of the
promises of the previous years a heavy money-bill was passed. Finally
five more Catholics, four priests and a woman, were attainted for high
treason on various charges.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph was not altogether happy as May drew on. There began to be signs
that his master's policy with regard to the Cleves alliance was losing
ground in the councils of the State; but Cromwell himself seemed to
acquiesce, so it appeared as if his own mind was beginning to change.
There was a letter to Pate, the ambassador to the Emperor, that Ralph
had to copy one day, and he gathered from it that conciliation was to be
used towards Charles in place of the old defiance.

But he did not see much of Parliament affairs this month.

Cromwell had told him to sort a large quantity of private papers that
had gradually accumulated in Ralph's own house at Westminster; for that
he desired the removal of most of them to his own keeping.

They were an enormous mass of documents, dealing with every sort and
kind of the huge affairs that had passed through Cromwell's hands for
the last five years. They concerned hundreds of persons, living and
dead--statesmen, nobles, the foreign Courts, priests, Religious,
farmers, tradesmen--there was scarcely a class that was not represented
there.

Ralph sat hour after hour in his chair with locked doors, sorting,
docketting, and destroying; and amazed by this startling object-lesson
of the vast work in which he had had a hand. There were secrets there
that would burst like a bomb if they were made public--intrigues,
bribes, threats, revelations; and little by little a bundle of the most
important documents accumulated on the table before him. The rest lay in
heaps on the floor.

Those that he had set aside beneath his own eye were a miscellaneous set
as regarded their contents; the only unity between them lay in the fact
that they were especially perilous to Cromwell. Ralph felt as if he were
handling gunpowder as he took them up one by one or added to the heap.

The new coronet that my Lord of Essex had lately put upon his head would
not be there another day, if these were made public. There would not be
left even a head to put it upon. Ralph knew that a great minister like
his master was bound to have a finger in very curious affairs; but he
had not recognised how exceptional these were, nor how many, until he
had the bundle of papers before him. There were cases in which persons
accused and even convicted of high treason had been set at liberty on
Cromwell's sole authority without reference to the King; there were
commissions issued in his name under similar conditions; there were
papers containing drafts, in Cromwell's own hand of statements of
doctrine declared heretical by the Six Articles, and of which copies had
been distributed through the country at his express order; there were
copies of letters to country-sheriffs ordering the release of convicted
heretics and the imprisonment of their accusers; there were evidences of
enormous bribes received by him for the perversion of justice.

Ralph finished his task one June evening, and sat dazed with work and
excitement, his fingers soiled with ink, his tired eyes staring at the
neat bundle before him.

The Privy Council, he knew, was sitting that afternoon. Even at this
moment, probably, my Lord of Essex was laying down the law, speaking in
the King's name, silencing his opponents by sheer force of will, but
with the Royal power behind him. And here lay the papers.

He imagined to himself with a fanciful recklessness what would happen if
he made his 