ver that part of it that lay in England.

Finally the debate was ended by the Prior's declaration that he could
trust no one to preach the enjoined sermon but himself, and that he
would see to it on his own responsibility.

It was scarcely an inspiring atmosphere for one who was preparing to
take on him the burden of priesthood in the Catholic Church.




CHAPTER II

SACERDOS IN AETERNUM


It was a day of wonderful autumn peace when Chris first sang mass in the
presence of the Community.

The previous day he had received priesthood from the hands of the little
old French bishop in the priory church; one by one strange mystical
ceremonies had been performed; the stole had been shifted and crossed on
the breast, the token of Christ's yoke; the chasuble had been placed
over his head, looped behind; then the rolling cry to the Spirit of God
who alone seals to salvation and office had pealed round the high roof
and down the long nave that stretched away westwards in sunlit gloom;
while across the outstretched hands of the monk had been streaked the
sacred oil, giving him the power to bless the things of God. The hands
were bound up, as if to heal the indelible wound of love that had been
inflicted on them; and, before they were unbound, into the hampered
fingers were slid the sacred vessels of the altar, occupied now by the
elements of bread and wine; while the awful power to offer sacrifice for
the quick and the dead was committed to him in one tremendous phrase.

Then the mass went on; and the new priest, kneeling with Dom Anthony at
a little bench set at the foot of the altar steps, repeated aloud with
the bishop the words of the liturgy from the great painted missal lying
before him.

How strange it had been too when all was over! He stood by a pillar in
the nave, beneath St. Pancras's image, while all came to receive his
blessing. First, the Prior, pale and sullen, as always now; then the
Community, some smiling and looking into his eyes before they knelt,
some perfunctory, some solemn and sedate with downcast faces; each
kissed the fragrant hands, and stood aside, while the laity came up; and
first among them his father and Mary.

His place too in the refectory had a flower or two laid beside it; and
the day had gone by in a bewildering dream. He had walked with his
father and sister a little, and had found himself smiling and silent in
their company.

In the evening he had once more gone through the ceremonies of mass, Dom
Anthony stood by, and watched and reminded and criticised. And now the
morning was come, and he stood at the altar.

       *       *       *       *       *

The little wind had dropped last night, and the hills round Lewes stood
in mellow sunlight; the atmosphere was full of light and warmth, that
tender glow that falls on autumn days; the trees in the court outside
stood, poised on the brink of sleep, with a yellow pallor tinging their
leaves; the thousand pigeons exulted and wheeled in the intoxicating
air.

The shadowy church was alight with sunshine that streamed through the
clerestory windows on to the heavy pillars, the unevenly paved floor,
and crept down the recumbent figures of noble and bishop from head to
foot. There were a few people present beyond the screen, Sir James and
his daughter in front, watching with a tender reverence the harvesting
of the new priest, as he prepared to gather under his hands the mystical
wheat and grapes of God.

Chris was perfectly practised in his ceremonies; and there was no
anxiety to dissipate the overpowering awe that lay on his soul. He felt
at once natural and unreal; it was supremely natural that he should be
here; he could not conceive being other than a priest; there was in him
a sense of a relaxed rather than an intensified strain; and yet the
whole matter was strange and intangible, as he felt the supernatural
forces gathering round, and surging through his soul.

He was aware of a dusky sunlit space about him, of the glimmer of the
high candles; and nearer of the white cloth, the shining vessels, the
gorgeous missal, and the rustle of the ministers' vestments. But the
whole was shot with an inner life, each detail was significant and
sacramental; and he wondered sometimes at the inaudible vibration that
stirred the silent air round him, as he spoke the familiar words to
which he had listened so often.

He kept his eyes resolutely down as he turned from time to time,
spreading his hands to the people, and was only partly conscious of the
faces watching him from the dark stalls in front and the sunlit nave
beyond. Even the sacred ministers, Dom Anthony and another, seemed to be
little more than crimson impersonal figures that moved and went about
their stately business with deft and gracious hands.

As he began to penetrate more nearly to the heart of the mystery, and
the angels' song before the throne rolled up from the choir, there was
an experience of a yet further retirement from the things of sense. Even
the glittering halpas, and the gleams of light above it where the five
chapels branched behind--even these things became shrouded; there was
jus