here, and it would be from their lips that he would
hear the message.

The old man and the girl still sat together in the window-seat, silent
now like the others. They had had their explanations in the boat, and
each knew what was in the other's heart. Chris and Nicholas stood by the
hearth, Mr. Morris by the door; and there was not the tremor of a doubt
in any of them as to what the future held.

Chris looked tranquilly round the room, at the little square table in
the centre, the four chairs drawn close to it, with their brocade
panels stained and well-worn showing at the back, the dark ceiling, the
piece of tapestry that hung over the side-table between the doors--it
was a martial scene, faded and discoloured, with ghostly bare-legged
knights on fat prancing horses all in inextricable conflict, a great
battleaxe stood out against the dusky foliage of an autumn tree; and a
stag with his fore feet in the air, ramped in the foreground, looking
over his shoulder. It was a ludicrously bad piece of work, picked up no
doubt by some former Lieutenant who knew more of military than artistic
matters, and had hung there--how long? Chris wondered.

He found himself criticising it detail by detail, comparing it with his
own designs in the antiphonary; he had that antiphonary still at home;
he had carried it off from Lewes, when Ralph--Ralph!--had turned him
out. He had put it up into a parcel on the afternoon of the spoilers'
arrival. He would show it to Ralph again now--in a day or two at
Overfield; they would laugh over it together; and he would take it with
him abroad, and perhaps finish it there. God's work is not so easily
hindered after all.

But all the while, the wandering stream of his thought was lighted and
penetrated by the radiant joy of his heart. It was all true, not a
dream!

He glanced again at the two in the window-seat.

His father was looking out of the lattice; but Beatrice raised her eyes
to his, and smiled at him.

Sir James stood up.

"The Lieutenant is coming," he said.

A moment later there were steps in the flagged passage; and a murmur of
voices. The soldier who had brought them to the lodgings was waiting
there with the order of admission, and was no doubt explaining the
circumstances.

Then the door opened suddenly; and a tall soldierly-looking man,
grey-haired and clean-shaven, in an officer's dress, stood there, with
the order in his hand, as the two in the window-seat rose to meet him.

"Master Torridon," he said abruptly.

Sir James stepped forward.

"Yes, sir."

"You have come to see Mr. Ralph Torridon whom we have here?"

"Yes, sir--my son."

Nicholas stepped forward, and the Lieutenant nodded at him.

"Yes, sir," said the officer to him, "I could not admit you before--" he
stopped, as if embarrassed, and turned to Beatrice.

"And this lady too?"

"Yes, Master Lieutenant," said the old man.

"But--but--I do not understand--"

He looked at the radiant faces before him, and then dropped his eyes.

"I suppose--you have not heard then?"

Chris felt his heart leap, and then begin to throb furiously and
insistently. What had happened? Why did the man look like that? Why did
he not speak?

The Lieutenant came a step forward and put his hand on the table. He was
looking strangely from face to face.

Outside the court was very still. The footstep that had passed on the
flagstones a minute before had ceased; and there was no sound but the
chirp of a bird under the eaves.

"You have not heard then?" said the Lieutenant again.

"Oh! for God's sake--" cried the old man suddenly.

"I have just come from your son," said the other steadily. "You are only
just in time. He is at the point of death."




CHAPTER XIII

THE RELEASE


It was morning, and they still sat in Ralph's cell.

       *       *       *       *       *

The attendant had brought in stools and a tall chair with a broken back,
and these were grouped round the low wooden bed; the old man in the
chair on one side, from where he could look down on his son's face, with
Beatrice beside him, Chris and Nicholas on the other side. Mr. Morris
was everywhere, sitting on a form by the door, in and out with food and
medicine, at his old master's bedside, lifting his pillow, turning him
in bed, holding his convulsive hands.

He had been ill six days, the Lieutenant told them. The doctor who had
been called in from outside named the disease _phrenitis_. It was
certain that he would not recover; and a message to that effect had been
sent across on the morning before, with the usual reports to Greenwich.

They had supped as they sat--silently--on what the gaoler brought; and
had slept by turns in the tall chair, wakening at a sound from the bed;
at the movement of the light across the floor as Morris slipped to and
fro noiselessly; at the chirp of the birds and the noises of the
stirring City as the daylight broadened on the wall, and the narrow
window grew bright and luminous.

And now the morning was high, and they were waiting for the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little table stood by the door, white-covered, with two candles,
guttering now