"That is all, gentlemen."

There was a moment's silence.

Then the applause broke out. It was not loud or noisy, as there
were scarcely two dozen men in the room, yet it was
astonishingly affecting, just the tapping of hands on the table
and a murmur of voices.

The Cardinal silenced it by a gesture.

"One word, gentlemen. . . . I have said nothing of any
opposition. Perhaps it would have been better if I had. But I
will only say this, and it is something of a warning too. I do
not believe that this Bill that is spoken of will necessarily
mean peace. I am aware of the dangers that are threatening;
perhaps I am even more aware of them than any other person
present. And yet, for all that, I am not in favour of delay."

He turned suddenly, and with his long smooth step was at the door
almost before Monsignor had time to open it and step aside. There
was no time for any other man to speak.

The car had hardly moved off from the door before Monsignor
turned to his chief.

   *   *   *   *   *

"Your Eminence," he said, "what was that about danger? I did
not understand."

The thin face was a little pale with the exertions of the speech,
as it turned to him in answer.

"I will tell you that," he said, "as soon as the Bill becomes law."




CHAPTER VI



(I)

It was an astounding scene in which Monsignor found himself, six
weeks later--extraordinary from the extreme quietness of it, and
the enormous importance of the issue for which they waited.

   *   *   *   *   *

The Cardinal and he had gone down to Lord Southminster's house
on the coast of Kent for three or four days to wait for the
final news, as it was wished to avoid the possibility of any
dangerous excitement on the night of the division; and it was
thought that the Cardinal's absence might be of service in
preventing any formidable demonstration at Westminster. He was
to return to London, in the event of the Bill passing, on the
following morning.

The situation was as follows:

A completely unexpected opposition had showed itself as soon as
the Bill was announced. It was perfectly well known that this
opposition was almost entirely artificial; but it was so well
engineered that there was grave doubt whether it might not affect
the voting in the Lower House. The Upper House, it was notorious,
was practically unanimous in favour of the Bill; and there had
been one or two unpleasant demonstrations outside the entrance to
the Second Chamber.

The opposition was artificial--that is to say, its activities
were managed after the manner of a stage-army, and the protesters
were largely German; but the crowds were so great, and the
genuineness of their opposition, such as it was, so obvious, that
very clear signs of wavering had become apparent, even on the
part of some of the more prominent Ministers of the Crown. Twice,
also, during public appearances of the King, who was well known
as a strong advocate of the Bill, there had been considerable
disturbances amongst the crowds.

All this had come, of course, to the ears of the ecclesiastical
authorities far more forcibly than the world outside suspected.
There had been threatening letters; twice the Cardinal's carriage
had been mobbed; a dozen well-known priests had been molested in
the public streets. There had been meetings and consultations of
all kinds; there had even been a moment when it seemed as if the
Cardinal and the Prime Minister stood almost alone in their
complete resolution. . . . It was not that any really responsible
persons contemplated the abandonment of the Bill; but a party had
almost been formed for its postponement, in the hope that when
once the opposition had been dissolved it would be difficult to
reorganize it again. On the other hand, the resolutes stood for
the assertion that just because things were really critical in
Germany--(in the state of affairs that followed the Emperor's
conversion)--it was now the time for England to advance; that any
hesitation shown now would be taken as a sign of weakness, and
that the Socialists' cause would be thereby enormously advanced.

Three or four results therefore were possible, from the
determination of the Government to push the Bill forward and to
present it for its second reading this evening. First, it might
pass triumphantly, if the leaders could succeed in inspiring
their followers with confidence. Secondly, it might be rejected,
if the panic spread; for, under the new parliamentary system
that had succeeded fifty years ago to the old Party Government,
it was impossible to reckon accurately on how members would
ultimately vote. Thirdly, it might pass with a narrow majority;
and in this event, it was certain that a very long delay would
follow before the Upper House would have an opportunity of
handing it on for the Royal assent. Fourthly--well, almost
anything else might happen, if the crowd, assembled in
Parliament Square, and swelled every hour by new arrivals,
showed itself predominantly hostile. . . .

Lord Southminster's house needs no description. It is probably,
even to-day, as well known as any place in England: there is no
guide book which does not