with a friend of Master More;
and though he had said nothing--for Ralph's manner did not encourage
questions--he had secretly congratulated both himself and his agent for
so happy a termination to an unfortunate incident.

For the meantime Ralph's fortunes rose with his master's; Lord Cromwell
now reigned in England next after the King in both Church and State. He
held a number of offices, each of which would have been sufficient for
an ordinary man, but all of which did not overtax his amazing energy. He
stood absolutely alone, with all the power in his hands; President of
the Star Chamber, Foreign Minister, Home-Minister, and the Vicar-General
of the Church; feared by Churchmen, distrusted by statesmen and nobles;
and hated by all except his own few personal friends--an unique figure
that had grown to gigantic stature through sheer effort and adroitness.

And beneath his formidable shadow Ralph was waxing great. He had failed
to get Lewes for himself, for Cromwell designed it for Gregory his son;
but he was offered his choice among several other great houses. For the
present he hesitated to choose; uncertain of his future. If his father
died there would be Overfield waiting for him, so he did not wish to tie
himself to one of the far-away Yorkshire houses; if his father lived, he
did not wish to be too near him. There was no hurry, said Cromwell;
there would be houses and to spare for the King's faithful servants; and
meantime it would be better for Mr. Torridon to remain in Westminster,
and lay his foundations of prosperity deeper and wider yet before
building. The title too that Cromwell dangled before him sometimes--that
too could wait until he had chosen his place of abode.

Ralph felt that he was being magnificently treated by his master; and
his gratitude and admiration grew side by side with his rising fortune.
There was no niggardliness, now that Cromwell had learnt to trust in
him; he could draw as much money as he wished for the payment of his
under-agents, or for any other purpose; and no questions were asked.

The little house at Westminster grew rich in treasures; his bed-coverlet
was the very cope he had taken from Rusper; his table was heavy with
chalices beaten into secular shape; his fire-screen was a Spanish
chasuble taken in the North. His servants were no longer three or four
sleeping in the house; there was a brigade of them, some that attended
for orders morning by morning, some that skirmished for him in the
country and returned rich in documents and hearsay; and a dozen waited
on his personal wants.

He dealt too with great folks. Half a dozen abbots had been to see him
in the last year or two, stately prelates that treated him as an equal
and pleaded for his intercession; the great nobles, enemies of his
master and himself, eyed him with respectful suspicion as he walked with
Cromwell in Westminster Hall. The King had pulled his ears and praised
him; Ralph had stayed at Greenwich a week at a time when the execution
of the Benedictine abbots was under discussion; he had ridden down
Cheapside with Henry on his right and Cromwell beyond, between the
shouting crowds and beneath the wild tossing of gold-cloth and tapestry
and the windy pealing of a hundred brazen bells. He had gone up with
Norfolk to Doncaster, a mouth through which the King might promise and
threaten, and had strode up the steps beside the Duke to make an end of
the insurgent-leaders of the northern rebellion.

He did not lack a goad, beside that of his own ambition, to drive him
through this desperate stir; he found a sufficient one in his memory. He
did not think much of his own family, except with sharp contempt. He did
not even trouble to make any special report about Chris or Margaret; but
it was impossible to remember Beatrice with contempt. When she had left
him kneeling at his table, she had left something besides--the sting of
her words, and the bitter coldness of her eyes.

As he looked back he did not know whether he loathed her or loved her;
he only knew that she affected him profoundly. Again and again as he
dealt brutally with some timid culprit, or stood with his hand on his
hip to direct the destruction of a shrine, the memory whipped him on his
raw soul. He would show her whether he were a man or no; whether he
depended on her or no; whether her woman's tongue could turn him or no.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was exercised now with very different matters. Religious affairs for
the present had fallen into a secondary place, and home and foreign
politics absorbed most of Cromwell's energies and time. Forces were
gathering once more against England, and the Catholic powers were coming
to an understanding with one another against the country that had thrown
off allegiance to the Pope and the Empire. There was an opportunity,
however, for Henry's propensity to marriage once more to play a part in
politics; he had been three years without a wife; and Cromwell had
hastened for the third time to avail himself of the King's passions as
an instrument in politics. He had understood that a union between
England a