nd the Lutheran princes would cause a formidable obstacle to
Catholic machinations; and with this in view had excited Henry by a
description and a picture of the Lady Anne, daughter of the Duke of
Cleves and sister-in-law of the Elector of Saxony. He had been perfectly
successful in the first stages; the stout duchess had landed at Deal at
the end of December; and the marriage had been solemnised a few days
later. But unpleasant rumour had been busy ever since; it was whispered
far and wide that the King loathed his wife, and complained that he had
been deceived as to her charms; and Ralph, who was more behind the
scenes than most men, knew that the rumour was only too true. He had
been present at an abominable incident the day after the marriage had
taken place, when the King had stormed and raved about the council-room,
crying out that he had been deceived, and adding many gross details for
the benefit of his friends.

Cromwell had been strangely moody ever since. Ralph had watched his
heavy face day after day staring vacantly across the room, and his hand
that held the pen dig and prick at the paper beneath it.

Even that was not all. The Anglo-German alliance had provoked opposition
on the continent instead of quelling it; and Ralph saw more than one
threatening piece of news from abroad that hinted at a probable invasion
of England should Cromwell's schemes take effect. These too, however,
had proved deceptive, and the Lutheran princes whom he had desired to
conciliate were even already beginning to draw back from the
consequences of their action.

Ralph was in Cromwell's room one day towards the end of January, when a
courier arrived with despatches from an agent who had been following the
Spanish Emperor's pacific progress through France, undertaken as a kind
of demonstration against England.

Cromwell tore open the papers, and glanced at them, running his quick
attentive eye over this page and that; and Ralph saw his face grow stern
and white. He tossed the papers on to the table, and nodded to the
courier to leave the room.

Then he took up a pen, examined it; dashed it point down against the
table; gnawed his nails a moment, and then caught Ralph's eye.

"We are failing," he said abruptly. "Mr. Torridon, if you are a rat you
had better run."

"I shall not run, sir," said Ralph.

"God's Body!" said his master, "we shall all run together, I think;--but
not yet."

Then he took up the papers again, and began to read.

It was a few days later that Ralph received the news of his mother's
illness.

She had written to him occasionally, telling him of his father's
tiresome ways, his brother's arrogance, his sister's feeble piety, and
finally she had told him of Beatrice's arrival.

"I consented very gladly," she had written, "for I thought to teach my
lady a lesson or two; but I find her very pert and obstinate. I do not
understand, my dear son, how you could have wished to make her your
wife; and yet I will grant that she has a taking way with her; she seems
to fear nothing but her own superstitions and folly, but I am very happy
to think that all is over between you. She never loved you, my Ralph;
for she cares nothing when I speak your name, as I have done two or
three times; nor yet Master More either. I think she has no heart."

Ralph had wondered a little as he read this, at his mother's curious
interest in the girl; and he wondered too at the report of Beatrice's
callousness. It was her damned pride, he assured himself.

Then, one evening as he arrived home from Hackney where he had slept the
previous night; he found a messenger waiting for him. The letter had not
been sent on to him, as he had not left word where he was going.

It contained a single line from his father.

"Your mother is ill. Come at once. She wishes for you."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was in the stormy blackness of a February midnight that he rode up
through the lighted gatehouse to his home. Above the terrace as he came
up the road the tall hall-window glimmered faintly like a gigantic
luminous door hung in space; and the lower window of his father's room
shone and faded as the fire leapt within.

A figure rose up suddenly from before the hall-fire as he came in,
bringing with him a fierce gust of wet wind through the opened door; and
when he had slipped off his dripping cloak into his servant's hands, he
saw that his father was there two yards away, very stern and white, with
outstretched hands.

"My son," said the old man, "you are too late. She died two hours ago."

It was a fierce shock, and for a moment he stood dazed, blinking at the
light, holding his father's warm slender hands in his own, and trying to
assimilate the news. He had been driven inwards, and his obstinacy
weakened, during that long ride from town through the stormy sunset into
the black, howling night; memories had reasserted themselves on the
strength of his anxiety; and the past year or two slipped from him, and
left him again the eldest son of the house and of his two parents.

Then as he looked into the pale bearded face before him, and the eyes
which 