ed to-night, now that the master of the house
was away; and as Ralph took his seat in his father's chair, Beatrice had
caught her breath for a moment as she saw the look on Nicholas's face.
It seemed as if the funeral had lifted a stone that had hitherto held
the two angry spirits down; Nicholas, after all, was but a son-in-law,
and Ralph, to his view at least, a bad son. She feared that both might
think that a quarrel did not outrage decency; but she feared for
Nicholas more than for Ralph.

Ralph appeared not to notice the other's scowl, and leaned easily back,
his head against the carved heraldry, and rapped his fingers softly and
rhythmically on the bosses of the arms.

Then she heard Nicholas draw a slow venomous breath; and the talk died
on Mary's lips. Beatrice stood up abruptly, in desperation; she did not
know what to say; but the movement checked Nicholas, and he glanced at
her a moment. Then Mary recovered herself, put her hand sharply on her
husband's, and slid out an indifferent sentence. Beatrice saw Ralph's
eyes move swiftly and sideways and down again, and a tiny wrinkle of a
smile show itself at the corners of his mouth. But that danger was
passed; and a minute later they heard the door of Sir James's room
opposite open, and the footsteps of the two men come out.

Ralph stood up at once as his father came in, followed by the priest,
and stepped back to the window-seat; there was the faintest hint in the
slight motion of his hands to the effect that he had held his post as
the eldest son until the rightful owner came. But the consciousness of
it in Beatrice's mind was swept away as she looked at the old man,
standing with a white stern face and his hands clenched at his sides.
She could see that something impended, and stood up quickly.

"Mr. Carleton has brought shocking news," he said abruptly; and his eyes
wandered to his eldest son standing in the shadow of the curtain. "A
company of mummers has arrived in the village--they--they are to give
their piece to-morrow."

There was a dead silence for a moment, for all knew what this meant.

Nicholas sprang to his feet.

"By God, they shall not!" he said.

Sir James lifted his hand sharply.

"We cannot hinder it," he said. "The priests have done what they can.
The fellow tells them--" he paused, and again his eyes wandered to
Ralph--"the fellow tells them he is under the protection of my Lord
Cromwell."

There was a swift rustle in the room. Nicholas faced sharply round to
the window-seat, his hands clenched and his face quivering. Ralph did
not move.

"Tell them, father," said Sir James.

The chaplain gave his account. He had been sent for by the parish priest
just before supper, and had gone with him to the barn that had been
hired for the performance. The carts had arrived that evening from
Maidstone; and were being unpacked. He had seen the properties; they
were of the usual kind--all the paraphernalia for the parody of the Mass
that was usually given by such actors. He had seen the vestments, the
friar's habit, the red-nosed mask, the woman's costume and wig--all the
regular articles. The manager had tried to protest against the priests'
entrance; had denied at first that any insult was intended to the
Catholic Religion; and had finally taken refuge in defiance; he had
flung out the properties before their eyes; had declared that no one
could hinder him from doing as he pleased, since the Archbishop had not
protested; and Lord Cromwell had given him his express sanction.

"We did all we were able," said the priest. "Master Rector said he would
put all the parishioners who came, under the ban of the Church; the
fellow snapped his fingers in his face. I told them of Sir James's
wishes; the death of my Lady--it was of no avail. We can do nothing."

The priest's sallow face was flushed with fury as he spoke; and his lips
trembled piteously with horror and pain. It was the first time that the
mummers had been near Overfield; they had heard tales of them from other
parts of the country, but had hoped that their own village would escape
the corruption. And now it had come.

He stood shaking, as he ended his account.

"Mr. Carleton says it would be of no avail for me to go down myself. I
wished to. We can do nothing."

Again he glanced at Ralph, who had sat down silently in the shadow while
the priest talked.

Nicholas could be restrained no longer. He shook off his wife's hand and
took a step across the room.

"And you--you sit there, you devil!" he shouted.

Sir James was with him in a moment, so swiftly that Beatrice did not see
him move. Margaret was clinging to her now, whispering and sobbing.

"Nick," snapped out the old man, "hold your tongue, sir. Sit down."

"God's Blood!" bellowed the squire. "You bid me sit down."

Sir James gripped him so fiercely that he stepped back.

"I bid you sit down," he said. "Ralph, will you help us?"

Ralph stood up instantly. He had not stirred a muscle as Nick shouted at
him.

"I waited for that, sir," he said. "What is it you would have me do?"

Beatrice saw that his face was quite quiet as he spoke; his eyelids
drooped a l