come hither to die for the faith of
Christ's holy Catholic Church." He raised his voice a little, and it
rang out confidently. "And I thank God that hitherto my stomach hath
served me very well thereunto, so that yet I have not feared death.
Wherefore I desire you all to help and assist with your prayers, that at
the very point and instant of death's stroke I may in that very moment
stand steadfast, without fainting in any one point of the Catholic
Faith, free from any fear."

He paused again; his hands closed one on the other. He glanced up.

"And I beseech the Almighty God of His infinite goodness and mercy, to
save the King and this realm; and that it may please Him to hold His
hand over it, and send the King's Highness good counsel."

He ceased abruptly; and dropped his head.

A gentle groan ran through the crowd.

Chris felt his throat contract, and a mist blinded his eyes for a
moment.

Then he saw the bishop slip the crucifix into his other hand, and open
the book, apparently at random. His lean finger dropped upon the page;
and he read aloud softly, as if to himself.

"This is life eternal, that they might know Thee, the one true God, and
Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent. I have glorified Thee on the earth; I
have finished the work which Thou gavest me to do."

Again there was silence, for it seemed as if he was going to make a
sermon, but he looked down at the book a moment or two. Then he closed
it gently.

"Here is learning enough for me," he said, "to my life's end."

There was a movement among the silent figures at the back of the
scaffold; and the Lieutenant stepped forward once more. The bishop
turned to meet him and nodded; handing him the book; and then with the
crucifix still in his hands, and with the officers help, sank on to his
knees.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed to Chris as if he waited an eternity; but he could not take
his eyes off him. Round about was the breathing mass of the crowd,
overhead the clear summer sky; up from the river came the sounds of
cries and the pulse of oars, and from the Tower now and again the call
of a horn and the stroke of a bell; but all this was external, and
seemed to have no effect upon the intense silence of the heart that
radiated from the scaffold, and in which the monk felt himself
enveloped. The space between himself and the bishop seemed annihilated;
and Chris found himself in company with a thousand others close beside
the man's soul that was to leave the world so soon. He could not pray;
but he had the sensation of gripping that imploring spirit, pulsating
with it, furthering with his own strained will that stream of effort
that he knew was going forth.

Meanwhile his eyes stared at him; and saw without seeing how the old man
now leaned back with closed eyes and moving lips; now he bent forward,
and looked at the crucified figure that he held between his hands, now
lifted it and lingeringly kissed the pierced feet. Behind stood the
stiff line of officers, and in front below the rail rose the glitter of
the halberds.

The minutes went by and there was no change. The world seemed to have
grown rigid with expectancy; it was as if time stood still. There fell
upon the monk's soul, not suddenly but imperceptibly, something of that
sense of the unseen that he had experienced at Tyburn. For a certain
space all sorrow and terror left him; he knew tangibly now that to which
at other times his mere faith assented; he knew that the world of spirit
was the real one; that the Tower, the axe, the imminent shadow of death,
were little more than illusions; they were part of the staging,
significant and necessary, but with no substance of reality. The eternal
world in which God was all, alone was a fact. He felt no longer pity or
regret. Nothing but the sheer existence of a Being of which all persons
there were sharers, poised in an eternal instant, remained with him.

This strange sensation was scarcely disturbed by the rising of the lean
black figure from its knees; Chris watched him as he might have watched
the inevitable movement of an actor performing his pre-arranged part.
The bishop turned eastward, to where the sun was now high above the
Tower gate, and spoke once more.

"_Accedite ad eum, et illuminamini; et facies vestræ non confundentur_."

Then once more in the deathly stillness he turned round; and his eyes
ran over the countless faces turned up to his own. But there was a
certain tranquil severity in his face--the severity of one who has taken
a bitter cup firmly into his hand; his lips were tightly compressed, and
his eyes were deep and steady.

Then very slowly he lifted his right hand, touched his forehead, and
enveloped himself in a great sign of the cross, still looking out
unwaveringly over the faces; and immediately, without any hesitation,
sank down on his knees, put his hands before him on to the scaffold, and
stretched himself flat.

He was now invisible to Chris; for the low block on which he had laid
his neck was only a few inches high.

There was again a surge and a murmur as the headsman stepped forward
with the huge-headed axe 