eatrice's lips closed again, and a look of contempt came into her
face.

"I have heard enough, Mr. Torridon. Will you come with me?"

Chris moved forward a step.

"I do not know who you are, madam," he said, "but do you understand what
this gentleman is? Do you know that he is a creature of Master
Cromwell's?"

"I know everything," said Beatrice.

"And you were at Tyburn, too?" questioned Chris bitterly, "perhaps with
this brother of mine?"

Beatrice faced him defiantly.

"What have you to say against him, sir?"

Ralph made a movement to speak, but the girl checked him.

"I wish to hear it. What have you to say?"

"He is a creature of Cromwell's who plotted the death of God's saints.
This brother of mine was at the examinations, I hear, and at the
scaffold. Is that enough?"

Chris had himself under control again by now, but his words seemed to
burn with vitriol. His lips writhed as he spoke.

"Well?" said Beatrice.

"Well, if that is not enough; how of More and my Lord of Rochester?"

"He has been a good friend to Mr. More," said Beatrice, "that I know."

"He will get him the martyr's crown, surely," sneered Chris.

"And you have no more to say?" asked the girl quietly.

A shudder ran over the monk's body; his mouth opened and closed, and the
fire in his eyes flared up and died; his clenched hands rose and fell.
Then he spoke quietly.

"I have no more to say, madam."

Beatrice moved across to Ralph, and put her hand on his arm, looking
steadily at Chris. Ralph laid his other hand on hers a moment, then
raised it, and made an abrupt motion towards the door.

Chris went round the table; Mr. Morris opened the door with an impassive
face, and followed him out, leaving Beatrice and Ralph alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris had come back the previous evening from Tyburn distracted almost
to madness. He had sat heavily all the evening by himself, brooding and
miserable, and had not slept all night, but waking visions had moved
continually before his eyes, as he turned to and fro on his narrow bed
in the unfamiliar room. Again and again Tyburn was before him, peopled
with phantoms; he had seen the thick ropes, and heard their creaking,
and the murmur of the multitude; had smelt the pungent wood-smoke and
the thick drifting vapour from the cauldron. Once it seemed to him that
the very room was full of figures, white-clad and silent, who watched
him with impassive pale faces, remote and unconcerned. He had flung
himself on his knees again and again, had lashed himself with the
discipline that he, too, might taste of pain; but all the serenity of
divine things was gone. There was no heaven, no Saviour, no love. He was
bound down here, crushed and stifled in this apostate city whose sounds
and cries came up into his cell. He had lost the fiery vision of the
conqueror's welcome; it was like a tale heard long ago. Now he was
beaten down by physical facts, by the gross details of the tragedy, the
strangling, the blood, the smoke, the acrid smell of the crowd, and
heaven was darkened by the vapour.

It was not until the next day, as he sat with the Prior and a stranger
or two, and heard the tale once more, and the predictions about More and
Fisher, that the significance of Ralph's position appeared to him
clearly. He knew no more than before, but he suddenly understood what he
knew.

A monk had said a word of Cromwell's share in the matters, and the Prior
had glanced moodily at Chris for a moment, turning his eyes only as he
sat with his chin in his hand; and in a moment Chris understood.

This was the work that his brother was doing. He sat now more distracted
than ever: mental pictures moved before him of strange council-rooms
with great men in silk on raised seats, and Ralph was among them. He
seemed to hear his bitter questions that pierced to the root of the
faith of the accused, and exposed it to the world, of their adherence to
the Vicar of Christ, their uncompromising convictions.

He had sat through dinner with burning eyes, but the Prior noticed
nothing, for he himself was in a passion of absorption, and gave Chris a
hasty leave as he rose from table to go and see his brother if he
wished.

Chris had walked up and down his room that afternoon, framing sentences
of appeal and pity and terror, but it was useless: he could not fix his
mind; and he had gone off at last to Westminster at once terrified for
Ralph's soul, and blazing with indignation against him.

And now he was walking down to the river again, in the cool of the
evening, knowing that he had ruined his own cause and his right to speak
by his intemperate fury.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was another strange evening that he passed in the Prior's chamber
after supper. The same monk, Dom Odo, who had taken him to Tyburn the
day before, was there again; and Chris sat in a corner, with the
reaction of his fury on him, spent and feverish, now rehearsing the
scene he had gone through with Ralph, and framing new sentences that he
might have used, now listening to the talk, and vaguely gathering its
meaning.

It seemed that the tale of blood w