s houses had surrendered themselves to the
King before the passing of the bill in the early spring; and the rest of
them were gradually yielded up after its enactment during the summer of
the same year; and among them was Rusper. Chris heard that his sister
Margaret had returned to Overfield, and would stay there for the
present.

Throughout the whole of England there were the same scenes to be
witnessed. A troop of men, headed by a Commissioner, would ride up one
evening to some village where a little convent stood, demand entrance at
the gate, pass through, and disappear from the eyes of the watching
crowd. Then the next day the work would begin; the lead would be
stripped from the church and buildings; the treasures corded in bundles;
the woodwork of the interior put up to auction on the village green; and
a few days later the troop would disappear again, heavily laden, leaving
behind roofless walls, and bewildered Religious in their new secular
dress with a few shillings in their pockets, staring after the rich
cavalcade and wondering what was best to do.

It had been hoped that the King would stay his hand at the death of
Anne, and even yet return to the obedience of the Holy See. The Pope was
encouraged to think so by the authorities on the continent, and in
England itself there prevailed even confidence that a return to the old
ways would be effected. But Henry had gone too far; he had drunk too
deeply of the wealth that lay waiting for him in the treasuries of the
Religious houses, and after a pause of expectation he set his hand to
the cup again. It was but natural too, and for more noble motives, to
such a character as his. As he had aimed in his youth at nothing less
than supremacy in tennis, hunting and tourney, and later in
architecture, music and theological reputation; as, for the same reason
Wolsey had fallen, when the King looked away from girls and sports to
the fiercer game of politics; so now it was intolerable to Henry that
there should be even the shadow of a spiritual independence within his
domain.

A glow of resentful disappointment swept through the North of England at
the news. It burst out into flame in Lincolnshire, and was not finally
quenched until the early summer of the following year.

       *       *       *       *       *

The news that reached Lewes from time to time during the winter and
spring sent the hearts of all that heard it through the whole gamut of
emotions. At one time fierce hope, then despair, then rising confidence,
then again blank hopelessness--each in turn tore the souls of the monks;
and misery reached its climax in the summer at the news of the execution
at Tyburn of the Abbots of Jervaulx and Fountains, with other monks and
gentlemen.

The final recital of the whole tragedy was delivered to them at the
mouth of a Religious from the Benedictine cell at Middlesborough who had
been released by the Visitors at his own request, but who had afterwards
repented and joined the rising soon after the outset; he had been
through most of the incidents, and then when failure was assured had
fled south in terror for his life, and was now on his way to the
Continent to take up his monastic vocation once more.

The Prior was away on one of the journeys that he so frequently
undertook at this time, no man knew whither, or the ex-monk and rebel
would have been refused admittance; but the sub-Prior was persuaded to
take him in for a night, and he sat long in one of the parlours that
evening telling his story.

Chris leaned against the wall and watched him as he talked with the
candle-light on his face. He was a stout middle-aged man in layman's
dress, for he was not yet out of peril; he sat forward in his chair,
making preacher's gestures as he spoke, and using well-chosen vivid
words.

"They were gathered already when I joined them on their way to York;
there were nearly ten thousand of them on the road, with Aske at their
head. I have never set eyes on such a company! There was a troop of
gentlemen and their sons riding with Aske in front, all in armour; and
then the rabble behind with gentlemen again to their officers. The
common folk had pikes and hooks only; and some were in leather harness,
and some without; but they marched well and kept good order. They were
of all sorts: hairy men and boys; and miners from the North. There were
monks, too, and friars, I know not how many, that went with the army to
encourage them; and everywhere we went the women ran out of their homes
with food and drink, and prayed God to bless us; and the bells were rung
in the village churches. We slept as we could, some in houses, some in
churchyards and by the wayside, and as many of us as could get into the
churches heard mass each day. As many too as could make them, wore the
Five Wounds on a piece of stuff sewn on the arm. You would have said
that none could stand against us, so eager we were and full of faith."

"There was a song, was there not?" began one of the monks.

"Yes, father. We sang it as we went.

   "Christ crucified!
    For thy wounds wide
    Us commons guide
      Which pilgrims be!
 