 was set with
a long semicircle of chairs and desks, as if for judges, and these
were occupied by perhaps thirty persons, dressed, he saw, in dull
colours, all alike. The dresses seemed curiously familiar; he
supposed he must have seen them in pictures. Then he remembered a
long while ago Father Jervis telling him that the Socialists
resented the modern developments in matters of costume.

The President's desk and seat were raised a little above the
others, but from behind the priest could see nothing of him but
his black gown and his rather long iron-grey hair; he seemed to
be answering in rapid German some question that one of his
colleagues had just put to him.

The rest of the hall was almost empty. A table stood at the foot
of the platform, and here were three or four of the usual
recording machines; a dozen men sat here too, some writing, some
listening, leaning back in their chairs. In the middle, on the
opposite side of the table, stood a structure resembling a
witness-box, ascended by two steps, railed in on the three other
sides. A man with a pointed grey beard was leaving the box as the
priest came in. Standing about the hall also were perhaps twenty
other persons apparently listening to the President or waiting
their turn. There were tall doors at the end of the hall, closed
and guarded by police, and in the middle of each of the long
sides two other doors, also closed, communicating with other
rooms and passages, in one of which the priest had waited just
now until the Council could see him.

Except for the rapid, heavy voice of the President the hall was
very quiet, and from the very silence and motionlessness of those
present there exhaled a certain air of tenseness. It would have
been impossible for any intelligent person not to notice it, and
for the priest, with his nerves strung, as they now were, to an
extreme pitch of sensitiveness and attention, the atmosphere was
overwhelmingly significant. Of what it signified he had no idea,
beyond the knowledge he already possessed--that the hours were
running out, and that midnight would see a decisive event which,
though it must mean ultimately the ruin of every person present,
might, for all that, change the line of the world's development.
A protest so desperate as this could not but have a tremendous
effect upon human sentiment. He had caught a glimpse an hour before,
as he whirled through the streets, far up against the luminous slay
westwards, of a string of floating specks, which he knew to be the
guard-boats, strung out now, night and day, in a vast circle round
the city. At midnight they would surely move. . . .

Dark had already fallen outside, but the hall was as light as day
with the hidden electric burners above the cornices, and he could
see not only the faces, but the very expressions that
characterized them. One thing at least was common to them all--a
silent, fierce excitement. . . .

It would be about ten minutes before the priest's turn came to
face the Council. It seemed that the member to whom the
President was speaking was not satisfied, and question and
answer, all in rapid, unintelligible German, went on without
intermission. Once or twice there was a murmur of applause, and
more than once the President beat his hand heavily and
emphatically upon the desk before him to enforce his point. The
priest guessed that the unanimity was not perhaps as perfect as
the world had been given to believe. However, guessing was
useless. The President leaned back at last, and Hardy stepped
forward to his chair and whispered. The President nodded, and
the next moment, at a sign from Hardy, the two police urged the
priest forward by the arms across the platform, down the steps,
and so round to the right up into the witness-box. Then the
President, who had still been whispering behind his hand, turned
abruptly in his chair and faced him.

Monsignor related afterwards what an extraordinary moment that
had been. His nerves were already tight-stretched and his
expectation was at the highest; but the face of this man who now
looked at him (tremendous though he knew such a personality must
be, which could conceive and drive through such a revolt as
this),--the face of him was beyond all imagining.

In the fashion of the day it was clean-shaven, and the absence of
hair, except where that of his head framed the face, increased
the impressions of those lines and shadow. It was a priestly
face, saw Monsignor, with all the power and searchingness of one
who can deal with living souls; but the face of a fallen priest.
In complexion it was sallow, but the sallowness of health, not of
weakness; full-shaped, but without being fat; the lips were
straight and thin, the nose sharp and jutting and well curved,
and the black eyes blazed at him with immense power from beneath
heavy brows. His hair was brushed straight back from the
forehead, and fell rather long behind. The face resembled a
carefully modelled mask, through the eyes of which alone the
tremendous life was visible.

The priest met those eyes straight for an instant, then he
lowered his own, knowing that he could not 