nd sound in silence, as at the very Word of Him who
now at last had taken His power and reigned, whose Kingdom at
last had come indeed, to whom in very truth All Power was given
in heaven and earth. . . .





EPILOGUE

The white-skirted, clean-looking doctor came briskly and
noiselessly into the little room that opened off Ward No. IV in
the Westminster Hospital as the clock pointed to nine o'clock in
the morning, and the nursing-sister stood up to receive him.

"Good morning, sister," he said. "Any change?"

"He seemed a little disturbed about an hour ago by the bells,"
she said. "But he hasn't spoken at all."

Together they stood and looked down on the unconscious man. He
lay there motionless with closed eyes, his unshaven cheek resting
on his hand, his face fallen into folds and hollows, colourless
and sallow. The red coverlet drawn up over his shoulder helped to
emphasize his deadly pallor.

"It's a curious case," said the doctor. "I've never seen coma in
such a case last so long."

He still stared at him a moment or two; then he laid the back
of his hand gently against the dying man's cheek, then again
he consulted through his glasses the chart that hung over the
head of the bed.

"Will he recover consciousness before the end, doctor?"

"It's very likely; it's impossible to say. Send for me if
there's any change."

"I mayn't send for a priest, doctor?" she said
hesitatingly. "You know---"

He shook his head sharply.

"No, no. He distinctly refused, you remember. It's impossible,
sister. . . . I'm very sorry."

When he had gone, she sat down again, and drew out her beads
furtively upon her lap.

It was a horrible position for her. She, a Catholic, knew now
pretty well the history of this man--that he himself was a priest
who had lost the faith, who had associated himself with an
historian who was writing a history of the Popes from what he
called an impartial standpoint, who had, as the doctor said,
distinctly and resentfully refused the suggestion that another
priest should be sent to help him to make his peace before he died.
And, for her, as a convinced Catholic, the position had a terror
that is simply inconceivable to those of a less positive faith.

She could do nothing more. . . . She said her beads.

   *   *   *   *   *

There was a curious mixture of silence and sound here on this
Easter Sunday in this bare, airy little ward, with the door
closed, and the windows open only at the top. The room had a
remote kind of atmosphere about it, obtained perhaps partly by
the solidity of the walls, partly by the fact that it looked out
on to a comparatively unfrequented lane, partly by the
suggestiveness of a professional sick-room. The world was all
about it; yet it seemed rather to this nurse, sitting alone at
her prayers and duties, as if she had a window into the common
world of life rather than that she actually was a part of it.
Even the sounds that entered here had this remote tone about
them; the footsteps and talking of strayed holiday-makers,
occasional fragmentary peals of bells, the striking of the clock
in the high Victoria Tower--all these noises came into the room
delicately and suggestively rather than as interruptions, yet
distinct and noticeable because of the absence of the usual rush
of traffic across the great square outside.

The nurse dozed a little over her beads. (She had been on duty
since the evening before, and would not be relieved for another
hour yet.) And it seemed to her, as so often in that half-sleep,
half-wakefulness, when the drowsy brain knows all necessary
things and awakes alert again in an instant at any unusual
movement or sound, as if these sounds began to take on them tones
of other causes than those of themselves.

It seemed, for example, as if the steady murmur were the shouting
of phantom crowds at an immeasurable distance, punctuated now
again by the noise of distant guns, as, somewhere round a corner
a vehicle passed over a crossing of cobble-stones; as if the
bells of the churches rang with a deliberate purpose, to welcome
or rejoice over some event . . . some entry of a king, she
fancied, in a far-off city. Once even, so deep grew her
drowsiness, she fancied herself looking down on some such city,
herself up in the sunlight and air, floating on the cloudy vessel
of her own sleep. . . .

"Pray for us sinners," she murmured, "now and in the hour of our death."

Then she awoke in earnest, and saw the eyes of the patient fixed
intelligently upon her.

"Fetch a priest," he said.

   *   *   *   *   *

"Father," said the dying man an hour later, "is that all?
Have you finished?"

"Yes, my dear father--thank God!" . . .

"Well; sit down a minute or two. I want to talk to you."

The young priest, sent for nearly an hour ago in haste from the
Cathedral, finished putting up again into his little leather case
the tiny stocks of holy oil with which he had just anointed the
dying man. He had heard his confession . . . he had returned
again to fetch the _Viaticum_ and the oils; and now all was done;
and the old priest was reconciled and at peace. The young man was
still a little tremu