vant.

Chris looked at him; and his mask-like face too seemed strangely lighted
up. There was still across his cheek the shadow of a mark as of an old
whip-cut.

As they passed up the steps they became aware that the little crowd that
had waited at the top was only the detached fringe of a multitude that
had assembled further up the slope. It stretched under the trees as far
as they could see to right and left, from the outer wall of the Tower on
the one side, to where the rising ground on the left was hidden under
the thick foliage in the foreground. There was a murmur of talking and
laughter, the ringing of hand-bells, the cracking of whips and the cries
of children. The backs of the crowd were turned to the steps: there was
plainly something going on higher up the slope, and it seemed somewhat
away to the left.

For a moment Chris did not understand, and he turned to Morris.

"What is it?" he asked.

"The scaffold," said the servant tersely.

At the same moment high above the murmur of the crowd came the sound of
heavy resounding blows, as of wood on wood.

Then Chris remembered; and for one moment he sickened as he walked. His
father turned and looked over his shoulder as he went with Beatrice in
front, and his eyes were eloquent.

"I had forgotten," said Chris softly. "God help him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They turned in towards the right almost immediately to the low outer
gate of the fortress; and those for the first time remembered that the
order they carried was for four only.

Nicholas instantly offered to wait outside and let Morris go in. Morris
flatly refused. There was a short consultation, and then Nicholas went
up to the sentry on guard with the order in his hand.

The man looked at it, glanced at the party, and then turned and knocked
with his halberd on the great door behind, and in a minute or two an
officer came out in his buff and feathers. He took the order and ran his
eyes over it.

Nicholas explained.

The officer looked at him a moment without answering.

"And the lady too?" he said.

"Why, yes," said Nicholas.

"The lady wishes--" then he broke off. "You will have to see the
Lieutenant," he went on. "I can let you all through to his lodgings."

They passed in with a yeoman to conduct them under the low heavy
vaulting and through to the open way beyond. On their right was the wall
between them and the river, and on their left the enormous towers and
battlements of the inner court.

Chris walked with Morris behind, remembering the last time he was here
with the Prior all those years before. They had walked silently then,
too, but for another reason.

They passed the low Traitor's Gate on their right; Chris glanced at the
green lapping water beneath it as he went--Ralph had landed there--and
turned up the steep slope to the left under the gateway of the inner
court; and in a minute or two more were at the door of the Lieutenant's
lodgings.

There seemed a strange suggestiveness in the silence and order of the
wide ward that lay before them. The great White Tower dominated the
whole place on the further side, huge and menacing, pierced by its
narrow windows set at wide intervals; on the left, the row of towers
used as prisons diminished in perspective down to where the wall turned
at right angles and ran in behind the keep; and the great space enclosed
by the whole was almost empty. There were soldiers on guard here and
there at the doorways; a servant hurried across the wide sunlit ground,
and once, as they waited, a doctor in his short gown came out of one
door and disappeared into another.

And here they waited for an answer to their summons, silent and happy in
their knowledge. The place held no terrors for them.

The soldier knocked again impatiently, and again stood aside.

Chris saw Nicholas sidle up to the man with something of the same awe on
his face that had been there an hour ago.

"My Lord--Master Cromwell?" he heard him whisper, correcting himself.

The man jerked a thumb over his shoulder.

"There," he said.

There were three soldiers, Chris noticed, standing at the foot of one of
the Towers a little distance off. It was there, then, that Thomas
Cromwell, wool-carder, waited for death, hearing, perhaps, from his
window the murmur of the crowd beyond the moat, and the blows of mallet
on wood as his scaffold went up.

Then the door opened, and after a word or two the soldier motioned them
in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again they had to wait.

The Lieutenant, they were told, had been called away. He was expected
back presently.

They sat down, still in silence, in the little ground-floor parlour. It
was a pleasant little room, with a wide hearth, and two windows looking
on to the court.

But the suspense was not like that of the morning. Now they knew how it
must end. There would be a few minutes more, long perhaps to Ralph, as
he sat in his cell somewhere not far from them, knowing nothing of the
pardon that was on its way; and then the door would open, where day by
day for the last six weeks the gaoler had come and gone; and the faces
he knew would be t