story from the beginning;
and Chris left his father to tell it, and went up with Beatrice to
arrange about rooms.

Matters were soon settled with the old lady; Nicholas and Chris were to
sleep in one room, and Sir James in an another. Two servants only could
be accommodated in the house; the rest were to put up at the inn.
Beatrice went off to give the necessary orders.

Mistress Jane Atherton and Chris had a few moments together before the
others came up.

"A sore heart," said the old lady again, "but a glad one too. Beatrice
has told me everything."

"I am thankful too," said Chris softly. "I wonder if my father
understands."

"He will, father, he will. But even if he does not--well, God knows
all."

It was evident when Sir James came upstairs presently that he did not
understand anything yet, except that Beatrice thought that Ralph had
behaved well.

"But it is to my Lord Essex--who has been the worker of all the
mischief--that my son is faithful. Is that a good thing then?"

"Why, yes," said Chris. "You would not have him faithless there too?"

"But would he not be on God's side at last, if he were against
Cromwell?"

The old man was still too much bewildered to understand explanations,
and his son was silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris could not sleep that night, and long after Nicholas lay deep in
his pillow, with open mouth and tight eyes, the priest was at the window
looking out over the river where the moon hung like a silver shield
above Southwark. The meadows beyond the stream were dim and colourless;
here and there a roof rose among trees; and straight across the broad
water to his feet ran a path of heaving glory, where the strong ripple
tossed the silver surface that streamed down upon it from the moon.

London lay round him as quiet as Overfield, and Chris remembered with a
stir at his heart his moonlight bathe all those years ago in the lake at
home, when he had come back hot from hunting and had slipped down with
the chaplain after supper. Then the water had seemed like a cool restful
gulf in the world of sensation; the moon had not been risen at first;
only the stars pricked above and below in air and water. Then the moon
had come up, and a path of splendour had smitten the surface into sight.
He had swum up it, he remembered, the silver ripple washing over his
shoulders as he went.

And now those years of monastic peace and storm had come and gone,
sifting and penetrating his soul, washing out from it little by little
the heats and passions with which he had plunged. As he looked back on
himself he was astonished at his old complacent smallness. His figure
appeared down that avenue of years, a tiny passionate thing,
gesticulating, feverish, self-conscious. He remembered his serene
certainty that he was right and Ralph wrong in every touch of friction
between them, his own furious and theatrical outburst at the death of
the Carthusians, his absurd dignity on later occasions. Even in those
first beginnings of peace when the inner life had begun to well up and
envelop him he had been narrow and self-centred; he had despised the
common human life, not understanding that God's Will was as energetic in
the bewildering rush of the current as in the quiet sheltered
back-waters to which he himself had been called. He had been awakened
from that dream by the fall of the Priory, and that to which he opened
his eyes had been forced into his consciousness by the months at home,
when he had had that astringent mingling of the world and the spirit, of
the interpenetration of the inner by the outer. And now for the first
time he stood as a balanced soul between the two, alight with a tranquil
grace within, and not afraid to look at the darkness without. He was
ready now for either life, to go back to the cloister and labour there
for the world at the springs of energy, or to take his place in the new
England and struggle at the tossing surface.

He stood here now by the hurrying turbulent stream, a wider and more
perilous gulf than that that had lain before him as he looked at the
moonlit lake at Overfield and yet over it brooded the same quiet shield
of heaven, gilding the black swift flowing forces with the promise of a
Presence greater than them all.

He stood there long, staring and thinking.




CHAPTER IX

A RELIEF-PARTY


The days that followed were very anxious and troubled ones for Ralph's
friends at Charing. They were dreadful too from their very
uneventfulness.

On the morning following their arrival Chris went off to the Temple to
consult a lawyer that the Lieutenant had recommended to Nicholas, and
brought him back with him an hour later. The first need to be supplied
was their lack of knowledge as to procedure; and the four men sat
together until dinner, in the parlour on the first floor looking over
the sunlit river; and discussed the entire situation.

The lawyer, Mr. Herries, a shrewd-faced Northerner, sat with his back to
the window, fingering a quill horizontally in his lean brown fingers and
talking in short sentences, glancing up between them, with patient
silences as the others 