e worst. Here is my sentence, and see that it be carried out.
You, Master Prior, and you Master Sub-Prior, are to appear before Master
Cromwell in his court on All-Hallows' Eve, and tell your tales to him.
You shall see if he be so soft as I; it may be that he will send you
before the King's Grace--that I know not--but at least he will know how
to get the truth out of you, if I cannot--"

Once more the Prior broke in, in an agony of terror; but the doctor
silenced him in a moment.

"Have I not given my sentence, sir? How dare you speak?"

A murmur again ran round the room, and he lifted his hand furiously.

"Silence," he shouted, "not one word from a mother's son of you. I have
had enough of sedition already. Clear the room, officer, and let not one
shaveling monk put his nose within again, until I send for him. I am
weary of them all--weary and broken-hearted."

The doctor dropped back into his seat, with a face of profound disgust,
and passed his hand over his forehead.

The monks turned at the signal from the door, and Ralph watched the
black lines once more file out.

"There, Mr. Torridon," whispered the doctor behind his hand. "Did I not
tell you so? Master Cromwell will be able to do what he will with him."




CHAPTER VIII

RALPH'S RETURN


The Visitation of Lewes Priory occupied a couple of days, as the estates
were so vast, and the account-books so numerous.

In the afternoon following the scene in the chapter-house, Dr. Layton
and Ralph rode out to inspect some of the farms that were at hand,
leaving orders that the stock was to be driven up into the court the
next day, and did not return till dusk. The excitement in the town was
tremendous as they rode back through the ill-lighted streets, and as the
rumour ran along who the great gentlemen were that went along so gaily
with their servants behind them; and by the time that they reached the
priory-gate there was a considerable mob following in their train,
singing and shouting, in the highest spirits at the thought of the
plunder that would probably fall into their hands.

Layton turned in his saddle at the door, and made them a little speech,
telling them how he was there with the authority of the King's Grace,
and would soon make a sweep of the place.

"And there will be pickings," he cried, "pickings for us all! The widow
and the orphan have been robbed long enough; it is time to spoil the
fathers."

There was a roar of amusement from the mob; and a shout or two was
raised for the King's Grace.

"You must be patient," cried Dr. Layton, "and then no more taxes. You
can trust us, gentlemen, to do the King's work as it should be done."

As he passed in through the lamp-lit entrance he turned to Ralph again.

"You see, Mr. Torridon, we have the country behind us."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was that evening that Ralph for the first time since the quarrel met
his brother face to face.

He was passing through the cloister on his way to Dr. Layton's room, and
came past the refectory door just as the monks were gathering for
supper. He glanced in as he went, and had a glimpse of the clean solemn
hall, lighted with candles along the panelling, the long bare tables
laid ready, the Prior's chair and table at the further end and the great
fresco over it. A lay brother or two in aprons were going about their
business silently, and three or four black figures, who had already
entered, stood motionless along the raised dais on which the tables
stood.

The monks had all stopped instantly as Ralph came among them, and had
lowered their hoods with their accustomed courtly deference to a guest;
and as he turned from his momentary pause at the refectory door in the
full blaze of light that shone from it, he met Chris face to face.

The young monk had come up that instant, not noticing who was there, and
his hood was still over his head. There was a second's pause, and then
he lifted his hand and threw the hood back in salutation; and as Ralph
bowed and passed on he had a moment's sight of that thin face and the
large grey eyes in which there was not the faintest sign of recognition.

Ralph's heart was hot with mingled emotion as he went up the cloister.
He was more disturbed by the sudden meeting, the act of courtesy, and
the cold steady eyes of this young fool of a brother than he cared to
recognise.

He saw no more of him, except in the distance among his fellows; and he
left the house the next day when the business was done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matters in the rest of England were going forward with the same
promptitude as in Sussex. Dr. Layton himself had visited the West
earlier in the autumn, and the other Visitors were busy in other parts
of the country. The report was current now that the resources of all the
Religious Houses were to be certainly confiscated, and that those of the
inmates who still persisted in their vocation would have to do so under
the most rigorous conditions imaginable. The results were to be seen in
the enormous increase of beggars, deprived now of the hospitality they
were accustomed to receive; and the roads 