ked round beyond
the circle of light cast by his own candle, and the place seemed full of
ghosts and presences to his fancy. The pale oak panelling glimmered
along the walls above the empty seats, from the Prior's to the left,
over which the dusky fresco of the Majesty of Christ grew darker still
as the light faded, down to the pulpit opposite where Dom Anthony's
grave ruddy face with downcast eyes stood out vivid in the candlelight.
Ah! surely there was a cloud of witnesses now, a host of faces looking
down from the black rafters overhead, and through the glimmering
panes,--the faces of those who had eaten here with the same sacramental
dignity and graciousness that these two survivors used. It was
impossible to feel lonely in this stately house, saturated with holy
life; and with a thrill at his heart he remembered how Dom Anthony had
once whispered to him at the beginning of the troubles, that if others
held their peace the very stones should cry out; and that God was able
of those stones to raise up children to His praise....

There was a sound of brisk, hurrying footsteps in the cloister outside,
Dom Anthony ceased his reading with his finger on the place, and the
eyes of the two monks met.

The door was opened abruptly, and Morris stood there.

"My master has sent me, sir," he said. "They are coming."




CHAPTER VI

THE LAST STAND


The court outside had deepened into shadows as they came out; but
overhead the sky still glowed faintly luminous in a tender translucent
green. The evening star shone out clear and tranquil opposite them in
the west.

There were three figures standing at the foot of the steps that led down
from the cloister; one of the servants with the two gentlemen; and as
Chris pushed forward quickly his father turned and lifted his finger for
silence.

The town lay away to the right; and over the wall that joined the west
end of the church to the gatehouse, there were a few lights
visible--windows here and there just illuminated.

For the first moment Chris thought there had been a mistake; he had
expected a clamour at the gate, a jangling of the bell. Then as he
listened he knew that it was no false alarm.

Across the wall, from the direction of the hills that showed dimly
against the evening sky, there came a murmur, growing as he listened.
The roads were hard from lack of rain, and he could distinguish the
sound of horses, a great company; but rising above this was a dull roar
of voices. Every moment it waxed, died once or twice, then sounded out
nearer and louder. There was a barking of dogs, the cries of children,
and now and again the snatch of a song or a shouted word or two.

Of the group on the steps within not one stirred, except when Sir James
slowly lowered his upraised hand; and so they waited.

The company was drawing nearer now; and Chris calculated that they must
be coming down the steep road that led from the town; and even as he
thought it he heard the sound of hoofs on the bridge that crossed the
Winterbourne.

Dom Anthony pushed by him.

"To the gate," he said, and went down the step and across the court
followed by the others. As they went the clamour grew loud and near in
the road outside; and a ruddy light shone on the projecting turret of
the gateway.

Chris was conscious of extraordinary coolness now that the peril was on
him; and he stared up at the studded oak doors, at the wicket cut in one
of the leaves, and the sliding panel that covered the grill, with little
thought but that of conjecture as to how long the destruction of the
gate would take. The others, too, though he was scarcely aware of their
presence, were silent and rigid at his side, as Dom Anthony stepped up
to the closed grill and waited there for the summons.

It came almost immediately.

There was a great crescendo of sound as the party turned the corner, and
a flare of light shone under the gate; then the sound of loud talking, a
silence of the hoofs; and a sudden jangle on the bell overhead.

The monk turned from the grill and lifted his hand.

Then again the talking grew loud, as the mob swept round the corner
after the horses.

Still all was silent within. Chris felt his father's hand seek his own a
moment, and grip it; and then above the gabbling clamour a voice spoke
distinctly outside.

"Have the rats run, then?"

The bell danced again over their heads; and there was a clatter of raps
on the huge door.

Dom Anthony slid back the shutter.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment it was not noticed outside, for the entry was dark. Chris
could catch a glimpse on either side of the monk's head of a flare of
light, but no more.

Then the same voice spoke again, and with something of a foreign accent.

"You are there, then; make haste and open."

Another voice shouted authoritatively for silence; and the clamour of
tongues died.

Dom Anthony waited until all was quiet, and then answered steadily.

"Who are you?"

There was an oath; the tumult began again, but hushed immediately, as
the same voice that had called for admittance shouted aloud--

"Open, I tell you, you bloody monk! We come from th