over his shoulder, and stood waiting.

Then again the moments began to pass.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris lost all consciousness of his own being; he was aware of nothing
but the objective presence of the scaffold, of an overpowering
expectancy. It seemed as if something were stretched taut in his brain,
at breaking point; as if some vast thing were on the point of
revelation. All else had vanished,--the scene round him, the sense of
the invisible; there was but the point of space left, waiting for an
explosion.

There was a sense of wrenching torture as the headsman lifted the axe,
bringing it high round behind him; the motion seemed shockingly slow,
and to wring the strained nerves to agony....

       *       *       *       *       *

Then in a blinding climax the axe fell.




CHAPTER XV

THE KING'S FRIEND


Overfield Court was mildly stirred at the news that Master Christopher
would stay there a few days on his way back from London to Lewes. It was
not so exciting as when Master Ralph was to come, as the latter made
more demands than a mere monk; for the one the horses must be in the
pink of condition, the game neither too wild nor too tame, his rooms
must be speckless, neither too full nor too empty of furniture; for the
other it did not matter so much, for he was now not only a younger
brother, but a monk, and therefore accustomed to contradiction and
desirous to acquiesce in arrangements.

Lady Torridon indeed took no steps at all when she heard that Chris was
coming, beyond expressing a desire that she might not be called upon to
discuss the ecclesiastical situation at every meal; and when Chris
finally arrived a week after Bishop Fisher's execution, having parted
with the Prior at Cuckfield, she was walking in her private garden
beyond the moat.

Sir James was in a very different state. He had caused two rooms to be
prepared, that his son might take his choice, one next to Mr. Carleton's
and therefore close to the chapel, and the other the old chamber that
Chris had occupied before he went to Lewes; and when the monk at last
rode up on alone on his tired mule with his little bag strapped to the
crupper, an hour before sunset, his father was out at the gatehouse to
meet him, and walked up beside him to the house, with his hand laid on
his son's knee.

They hardly spoke a word as they went; Sir James had looked up at
Chris's white strained face, and had put one question; and the other had
nodded; and the hearts of both were full as they went together to the
house.

The father and son supped together alone that night in the private
parlour, for no one had dared to ask Lady Torridon to postpone her usual
supper hour; and as soon as that was over and Chris had told what he had
seen, with many silences, they went into the oak-room where Lady
Torridon and Mr. Carleton were awaiting them by the hearth with the
Flemish tiles.

The mother was sitting as usual in her tall chair, with her beautiful
hands on her lap, and smiled with a genial contempt as she ran her eyes
up and down her son's figure.

"The habit suits you very well, my son--in every way," she added,
looking at him curiously.

Chris had greeted her an hour before at his arrival, so there was no
ceremony of salute to be gone through now. He sat down by his father.

"You have seen Ralph, I hear," observed Lady Torridon.

Chris did not know how much she knew, and simply assented. He had told
his father everything.

"I have some news," she went on in an unusually talkative mood, "for you
both. Ralph is to marry Beatrice Atherton--the girl you saw in his
rooms, Christopher."

Sir James gave an exclamation and leant forward; and Chris tightened his
lips.

"She is a friend of Mr. More's," went on Lady Torridon, apparently
unconscious of the sensation she was making, "but that is Ralph's
business, I suppose."

"Why did Ralph not write to me?" asked his father, with a touch of
sternness.

Lady Torridon answered him by a short pregnant silence, and then went
on--

"I suppose he wished me to break it to you. It will not be for two or
three years. She says she cannot leave Mrs. More for the present."

Chris's brain was confused by the news, and yet it all seemed external
to him. As he had ridden up to the house in the evening he had
recognised for the first time how he no longer belonged to the place;
his two years at Lewes had done their work, and he came to his home now
not as a son but as a guest. He had even begun to perceive the
difference after his quarrel with Ralph, for he had not been conscious
of the same personal sting at his brother's sins that he would have felt
five years ago. And now this news, while it affected him, did not
penetrate to the still sanctuary that he had hewn out of his heart
during those months of discipline.

But his father was roused.

"He should have written to me," he said sternly. "And, my wife, I will
beg you to remember that I have a right to my son's business."

Lady Torridon did not move or answer. He leaned back again, and passed
his hand tenderly through Chris's arm.

       *       *       *       *       *

It 