my lord, for the interstices," said the
Prior.

Chris had heard that this would be done, before he left Lewes, and he
was astonished now, not at the news, but at the strange softness of the
Prior's voice.

"That is very well," went on the bishop. "We want all the faithful
priests possible. There is a great darkness in the land, and we need
lights to lighten it. You have a brother in Master Cromwell's service,
sir, I hear?"

Chris was silent.

"You must not grieve too much. God Almighty can set all right. It may be
he thinks he is serving Him. We are not here to judge, but to give our
own account."

The bishop went on presently to ask a few questions and to talk of
Master More, saying that he had managed to correspond with him for a
while, but that now all the means for doing so had been taken away from
them both, as well as his own books.

"It is a great grief to me that I cannot say my office, nor say nor hear
mass: I must trust now to the Holy Sacrifice offered by others."

He spoke so tenderly and tranquilly that Chris was hardly able to keep
back his tears. It seemed that the soul still kept its serene poise in
that wasted body, and was independent of it. There was no weakness nor
peevishness anywhere. The very room with its rough walls, its cobwebbed
roof, its uneven flooring, its dreadful chill and gloom, seemed alive
with a warm, redolent, spiritual atmosphere generated by this keen, pure
soul. Chris had never been near so real a sanctity before.

"You have seen nothing of my Rochester folk, I suppose?" went on the
bishop to the Prior.

The Prior shook his head.

"I am very downcast about them sometimes; I saw many of them at the
court the other day. I forget that the Good Shepherd can guard His own
sheep. And they were so faithful to me that I know they will be faithful
to Him."

       *       *       *       *       *

There came a sound of a key being knocked upon the door outside, and the
bishop stood up, slowly and painfully.

"That will be Mr. Giles," he said, "hungry for supper."

The two monks sank down on their knees, and as Chris closed his eyes he
heard a soft murmur of blessing over his head.

Then each kissed his hand and Chris went to the door, half blind with
tears.

He heard a whisper from the bishop to the Prior, who still lingered a
moment, and a half sob--

"God helping me!"--said the Prior.

There was no more spoken, and the two went down the stairs together into
the golden sunshine with the warder behind them.

Chris dared not look at the other. He had had a glimpse of his face as
he stood aside on the stairs to let him pass, and what he saw there told
him enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were plenty of boats rocking on the tide at the foot of the river
stairs outside the Tower, and they stepped into one, telling the man to
row to Southwark.

It was a glorious summer evening now. The river lay bathed in the level
sunshine that turned it to molten gold, and it was covered with boats
plying in all directions. There were single wherries going to and from
the stairs that led down on all sides into the water, and barges here
and there, of the great merchants or nobles going home to supper, with a
line of oars on each side, and a glow of colour gilding in the stem and
prow, were moving up stream towards the City. London Bridge stood out
before them presently, like a palace in a fairy-tale, blue and romantic
against the western glow, and above it and beyond rose up the tall spire
of the Cathedral. On the other side a fringe of houses began a little to
the east of the bridge, and ran up to the spires of Southwark on the
other side, and on them lay a glory of sunset with deep shadows barring
them where the alleys ran down to the water's edge. Here and there
behind rose up the heavy masses of the June foliage. A troop of swans,
white patches on the splendour, were breasting up against the
out-flowing tide.

The air was full of sound; the rattle and dash of oars, men's voices
coming clear and minute across the water; and as they got out near
mid-stream the bell of St. Paul's boomed far from away, indescribably
solemn and melodious; another church took it up, and a chorus of mellow
voices tolled out the Angelus.

Chris was half through saying it to himself, when across the soft murmur
sounded the clash of brass far away beyond the bridge.

The boatman paused at his oars, turned round a moment, grasping them in
one hand, and stared up-stream under the other. Chris could see a
movement among the boats higher up, and there seemed to break out a
commotion at the foot of the houses on London Bridge, and then far away
came the sound of cheering.

"What is it?" asked the Prior sharply, lifting his head, as the boatman
gave an exclamation and laid furiously to his oars again.

The man jerked his head backwards.

"The King's Grace," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a minute or two nothing more was to be seen. A boat or two near them
was seen making off to the side from mid-stream, to leave a clear
passage, and there were cries from the direction of the bridge where
someo