es that they both accepted and lived by,
the conclusion was simply inevitable.

He waited a minute or two, and at last went to the tube that
communicated with the servants' quarters.

"Where is Mrs. Brand?" he asked.

There was an instant's silence, and then the answer came:

"She left the house half-an-hour ago, sir. I thought you knew."




III

That same evening Mr. Francis was very busy in his office over the
details connected with the festival of Sustenance that was to be
celebrated on the first of July. It was the first time that the
particular ceremony had taken place, and he was anxious that it should
be as successful as its predecessors. There were a few differences
between this and the others, and it was necessary that the
_ceremoniarii_ should be fully instructed.

So, with his model before him--a miniature replica of the interior of
the Abbey, with tiny dummy figures on blocks that could be shifted this
way and that, he was engaged in adding in a minute ecclesiastical hand
rubrical notes to his copy of the Order of Proceedings.

When the porter therefore rang up a little after twenty-one o'clock,
that a lady wished to see him, he answered rather brusquely down the
tube that it was impossible. But the bell rang again, and to his
impatient question, the reply came up that it was Mrs. Brand below, and
that she did not ask for more than ten minutes' conversation. This was
quite another matter. Oliver Brand was an important personage, and his
wife therefore had significance, and Mr. Francis apologised, gave
directions that she was to come to his ante-room, and rose, sighing,
from his dummy Abbey and officials.

She seemed very quiet this evening, he thought, as he shook hands with
her a minute later; she wore her veil down, so that he could not see her
face very well, but her voice seemed to lack its usual vivacity.

"I am so sorry to interrupt you, Mr. Francis," she said. "I only want to
ask you one or two questions."

He smiled at her encouragingly.

"Mr. Brand, no doubt---"

"No," she said, "Mr. Brand has not sent me. It is entirely my own
affair. You will see my reasons presently. I will begin at once. I know
I must not keep you."

It all seemed rather odd, he thought, but no doubt he would understand
soon.

"First," she said, "I think you used to know Father Franklin. He became
a Cardinal, didn't he?"

Mr. Francis assented, smiling.

"Do you know if he is alive?"

"No," he said. "He is dead. He was in Rome, you know, at the time of its
destruction."

"Ah! You are sure?"

"Quite sure. Only one Cardinal escaped--Steinmann. He was hanged in
Berlin; and the Patriarch of Jerusalem died a week or two later."

"Ah! very well. Well, now, here is a very odd question. I ask for a
particular reason, which I cannot explain, but you will soon
understand.... It is this--Why do Catholics believe in God?"

He was so much taken aback that for a moment he sat staring.

"Yes," she said tranquilly, "it is a very odd question. But---" she
hesitated. "Well, I will tell you," she said. "The fact is, that I have
a friend who is--is in danger from this new law. I want to be able to
argue with her; and I must know her side. You are the only priest--I
mean who has been a priest--whom I ever knew, except Father Franklin. So
I thought you would not mind telling me."

Her voice was entirely natural; there was not a tremor or a falter in
it. Mr. Francis smiled genially, rubbing his hands softly together.

"Ah!" he said. "Yes, I see.... Well, that is a very large question.
Would not to-morrow, perhaps---?"

"I only want just the shortest answer," she said. "It is really
important for me to know at once. You see, this new law comes into
force---"

He nodded.

"Well--very briefly, I should say this: Catholics say that God can be
perceived by reason; that from the arrangements of the world they can
deduce that there must have been an Arranger--a Mind, you understand.
Then they say that they deduce other things about God--that He is Love,
for example, because of happiness---"

"And the pain?" she interrupted.

He smiled again.

"Yes. That is the point--that is the weak point."

"But what do they say about that?"

"Well, briefly, they say that pain is the result of sin---"

"And sin? You see, I know nothing at all, Mr. Francis."

"Well, sin is the rebellion of man's will against God's."

"What do they mean by that?"

"Well, you see, they say that God wanted to be loved by His creatures,
so He made them free; otherwise they could not really love. But if they
were free, it means that they could if they liked refuse to love and
obey God; and that is what is called Sin. You see what nonsense---"

She jerked her head a little.

"Yes, yes," she said. "But I really want to get at what they think....
Well, then, that is all?"

Mr. Francis pursed his lips.

"Scarcely," he said; "that is hardly more than what they call Natural
Religion. Catholics believe much more than that."

"Well?"

"My dear Mrs. Brand, it is impossible to put it in a few words. But, in
brief, they believe that God became man--that Jesus was God, and that He
did this in order to save them 