as it swept beneath him and away, or on all sides
the dipping flags, the monstrous gilded prows, the bravery of
colour, down this broad road on which he went, scarcely conscious
that, as he passed, the great barges wheeled behind him to follow
to the meeting; scarcely hearing the tremendous music that,
sweeping up from the crowded streets below, wafted up to him the
adoration of a free people who had learned at last that the Law
of Liberty was the Law of Love. . . .

Ah! there at last they came. . . .

Far down, rising every instant higher above the summer haze,
outlined against a heaven of intensest blue, approached a cloud
that sparkled as it came, that broke into a thousand points of
colour--a long, flat cloud, seen at first as a steamer stretched
across the sky, curving down behind, as it seemed, into the haze
from which it came. On and up it came, growing every instant,
widening and deepening, ever more and more clear in colour and
form and depth.

It could be seen now of what elements it was made--a throng of
tiny specks, moving like stately birds, which, even as the eye
watched, seemed to spread their wings upon the breeze that
followed; to expand their bulk, and to glow, as the distance
lessened, into the separate colours of each. . . .

Then once again bellowed the guns, heard now like the voice of
articulate thunder five miles behind, rolling up the river as if
to welcome this fleet upon its way; and still he kept his eyes
upon those who came so swiftly.

There in front moved the great guard-ships, monsters of
polished steel, decked at prow and stern with the huge banners
that stood out straight behind in the swiftness of their
coming, but which, even as he looked, flapped and bellied to
this side and that as the speed decreased. Then, wheeling
outwards, disclosing as they wheeled the insignia that each
bore, the eagles of Germany, the lilies of France and the rest,
the guard of thirty giants fell once more into line, half a
mile apart, as those that followed came on, and waited; beating
the air with the shimmer of their netted wings.

Then ship after ship came up, each wheeling in its turn and
waiting, building now up with the speed of thought a vast
semicircle, expanding ever more and more swiftly, as the
watcher looked--himself halted now, with the royal barge on his
right and his train of boats behind. There each in its turn
passed the air-navies of the Great Powers, come to bring their
Lord with honour on his progress through the world--vast
armaments of inconceivable war, enrolled at last in the service
of the Prince of Peace.

Then when the movement was complete, and there lay there across
the burning blue of the sky, five hundred feet in air, this vast
curve of glittering splendour, ten miles from horn to horn, on
came the great fleet that they had escorted.

There, then, the watcher saw two by two, first the barges of the
Papal Orders, the Order of the Holy Sepulchre with its five-fold
cross, and the Golden Spur, leading--huge medieval galleons,
carved at prow and stem, each bearing its insignia; then came
couple after couple bearing the Papal Court, followed closely by
great barges, each with its canopy and throne, and the coat of
the Cardinal whom each bore flying overhead.

And then a glorious sight.

For, moving alone in a solid phalanx, each vessel separated only
by the space necessary for close manoeuvring, came the royal
barges of Europe, ranked on either side by a line of
guard-boats--France, Austria, and Germany, then Belgium and
Holland, then the Scandinavian kingdoms, then a crowd of lesser
States from the Balkan, Greece, and the Black Sea; then the
black-eagled barge of Russia, and finally the great galleons of
Spain and Italy: and on each sat a royal figure beneath a canopy
of state. And last of all moved a huge vessel, in scarlet and
white, with a banner of white and gold and cross-keys at the
prow; scarcely seen at first through the crowding craft, with a
squadron of guard-ships coming after.

There, then, the man who had lost his memory sat motionless, and
watched it all--this astounding display of inner grace
transformed into glory at last, that Royalty which since first
the Fisherman took his seat in Holy Rome, had little by little,
through reverse and success, forced its way outwards on the
world--the leaven hid in the meal till all was leavened. . . .
And it seemed to him as he looked, as if, through the splendour
of the midday sun, the glitter of that sea of air-craft--through
the pealing of the bells beneath and the shock of the guns and
the shrill crying that filled the air--there moved other
Presences, too, in yet a third medium than those of air and
earth; as if diffused throughout this material plane was a world
of more than matter and mind, more than of sense and
perception--a world where all was reconciled and made at
one--this clash of flesh and spirit--and that at last each
answered to each, and spirit inspired flesh, and flesh expressed
spirit. It seemed to him, for one blinding instant, as if at last
he saw how distance was contained in a single point, colour in
whiteness, a