was very strange to the younger son to find himself a few minutes
later up again in the west gallery of the chapel, where he had knelt two
years before; and for a few moments he almost felt himself at home. But
the mechanical shifting of his scapular aside as he sat down for the
psalms, recalled facts. Then he had been in his silk suit, his hands had
been rough with his cross-bow, his beard had been soft on his chin, and
the blood hot in his cheeks. Now he was in his habit, smooth-faced and
shaven, tired and oppressed, still weak from the pangs of soul-birth. He
was further from human love, but nearer the Divine, he thought.

He sat with his father a few minutes after compline; and Sir James spoke
more frankly of the news that they had heard.

"If she is really a friend of Mr. More's," he said, "she may be his
salvation. I am sorely disappointed in him. I did not know Master
Cromwell when I sent him to him, as I do now. Is it my fault, Chris?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chris told his father presently of what the Prior had said as to Ralph's
assistance in the matter of the visit that the two monks had paid to the
Tower; and asked an interpretation.

Sir James sat quiet a minute or two, stroking his pointed grey beard
softly, and looking into the hearth.

"God forgive me if I am wrong, my son," he said at last, "but I wonder
whether they let the my Lord Prior go to the Tower in order to shake the
confidence of both. Do you think so, Chris?"

Chris too was silent a moment; he knew he must not speak evil of
dignities.

"It may be so. I know that my Lord Prior--"

"Well, my son?"

"My Lord Prior has been very anxious--"

Sir James patted his son on the knee, and reassured him.

"Prior Crowham is a very holy man, I think; but--but somewhat delicate.
However their designs have come to nothing. The bishop is in glory; and
the other more courageous than he was."

Chris also had a few words with Mr. Carleton before he went to bed,
sitting where he had sat in the moonlight two years before.

"If they have done so much," said the priest, "they will do more. When a
man has slipped over a precipice he cannot save his fall. Master More
will be the next to go; I make no doubt of that. You are to be a priest
soon, Chris?"

"They have applied for leave," said the monk shortly. "In two years I
shall be a priest, no doubt, if God wills."

"You are happy?" asked the other.

Chris made a little gesture.

"I do not know what that means," he said, "but I know I have done right.
I feel nothing. God's ways and His world are too strange."

The priest looked at him oddly, without speaking.

"Well, father?" asked Chris, smiling.

"You are right," said the chaplain brusquely. "You have done well. You
have crossed the border."

Chris felt the blood surge in his temples.

"The border?" he asked.

"The border of dreams. They surround the Religious Life; and you have
passed through them."

Chris still looked at him with parted lips. This praise was sweet, after
the bitterness of his failure with Ralph. The priest seemed to know what
was passing in his mind.

"Oh! you will fail sometimes," he said, "but not finally. You are a
monk, my son, and a man."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lady Torridon retired into her impregnable silence again after her
sallies of speech on the previous evening; but as the few days went on
that Chris had been allowed to spend with his parents he was none the
less aware that her attitude towards him was one of contempt. She
showed it in a hundred ways--by not appearing to see him, by refusing to
modify her habits in the smallest particular for his convenience, by a
rigid silence on the subject that was in the hearts of both him and his
father. She performed her duties as punctually and efficiently as ever,
dealt dispassionately and justly with an old servant who had been
troublesome, and with regard to whom her husband was both afraid and
tender; but never asked for confidences or manifested the minutest
detail of her own accord.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the fourth day after Chris's arrival news came that Sir Thomas More
had been condemned, but it roused no more excitement than the fall of a
threatening rod. It had been known to be inevitable. And then on Chris's
last evening at home came the last details.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir James and Chris had been out for a long ride up the estate, talking
but little, for each knew what was in the heart of the other; and they
were just dismounting at the terrace-steps when there was a sound of
furious galloping; and a couple of riders burst through the gateway a
hundred yards away.

Chris felt his heart leap and hammer in his throat, but stood passively
awaiting what he knew was coming; and a few seconds later, Nicholas
Maxwell checked his horse passionately at the steps.

"God damn them!" he cried, with a crimson quivering face.

Sir James stepped up at once and took him by the arm.

"Nick," he said, and glanced at the staring grooms.

Nicholas showed his teeth like a dog.

"God damn them!" he said again.

The other rid