l, think about it, and let me know.... You have heard what has
happened?"

She nodded, but almost uninterestedly; and Percy was conscious of a tiny
prick of compunction at his own heart. After all, the reconciling of a
soul to God was a greater thing than the reconciling of East to West.

"It may make a difference to Mr. Brand," he said. "He will be a great
man, now, you know."

She still looked at him in silence, smiling a little. Percy was
astonished at the youthfulness of that old face. Then her face changed.

"Father, I must not keep you; but tell me this--Who is this man?"

"Felsenburgh?"

"Yes."

"No one knows. We shall know more to-morrow. He is in town to-night."

She looked so strange that Percy for an instant thought it was a
seizure. Her face seemed to fall away in a kind of emotion, half
cunning, half fear.

"Well, my child?"

"Father, I am a little afraid when I think of that man. He cannot harm
me, can he? I am safe now? I am a Catholic--?"

"My child, of course you are safe. What is the matter? How can this man
injure you?"

But the look of terror was still there, and Percy came a step nearer.

"You must not give way to fancies," he said. "Just commit yourself to
our Blessed Lord. This man can do you no harm."

He was speaking now as to a child; but it was of no use. Her old mouth
was still sucked in, and her eyes wandered past him into the gloom of
the room behind.

"My child, tell me what is the matter. What do you know of Felsenburgh?
You have been dreaming."

She nodded suddenly and energetically, and Percy for the first time felt
his heart give a little leap of apprehension. Was this old woman out of
her mind, then? Or why was it that that name seemed to him sinister?
Then he remembered that Father Blackmore had once talked like this. He
made an effort, and sat down once more.

"Now tell me plainly," he said. "You have been dreaming. What have you
dreamt?"

She raised herself a little in bed, again glancing round the room; then
she put out her old ringed hand for one of his, and he gave it,
wondering.

"The door is shut, father? There is no one listening?"

"No, no, my child. Why are you trembling? You must not be
superstitious."

"Father, I will tell you. Dreams are nonsense, are they not? Well, at
least, this is what I dreamt.

"I was somewhere in a great house; I do not know where it was. It was a
house I have never seen. It was one of the old houses, and it was very
dark. I was a child, I thought, and I was ... I was afraid of something.
The passages were all dark, and I went crying in the dark, looking for a
light, and there was none. Then I heard a voice talking, a great way
off. Father---"

Her hand gripped his more tightly, and again her eyes went round the
room.

With great difficulty Percy repressed a sigh. Yet he dared not leave her
just now. The house was very still; only from outside now and again
sounded the clang of the cars, as they sped countrywards again from the
congested town, and once the sound of great shouting. He wondered what
time it was.

"Had you better tell me now?" he asked, still talking with a patient
simplicity. "What time will they be back?"

"Not yet," she whispered. "Mabel said not till two o'clock. What time
is it now, father?"

He pulled out his watch with his disengaged hand.

"It is not yet one," he said.

"Very well, listen, father.... I was in this house; and I heard that
talking; and I ran along the passages, till I saw light below a door;
and then I stopped.... Nearer, father."

Percy was a little awed in spite of himself. Her voice had suddenly
dropped to a whisper, and her old eyes seemed to hold him strangely.

"I stopped, father; I dared not go in. I could hear the talking, and I
could see the light; and I dared not go in. Father, it was Felsenburgh
in that room."

From beneath came the sudden snap of a door; then the sound of
footsteps. Percy turned his head abruptly, and at the same moment heard
a swift indrawn breath from the old woman.

"Hush!" he said. "Who is that?"

Two voices were talking in the hall below now, and at the sound the old
woman relaxed her hold.

"I--I thought it to be him," she murmured.

Percy stood up; he could see that she did not understand the situation.

"Yes, my child," he said quietly, "but who is it?"

"My son and his wife," she said; then her face changed once more.
"Why--why, father---"

Her voice died in her throat, as a step vibrated outside. For a moment
there was complete silence; then a whisper, plainly audible, in a girl's
voice.

"Why, her light is burning. Come in, Oliver, but softly."

Then the handle turned.




CHAPTER V

I

There was an exclamation, then silence, as a tall, beautiful girl with
flushed face and shining grey eyes came forward and stopped, followed by
a man whom Percy knew at once from his pictures. A little whimpering
sounded from the bed, and the priest lifted his hand instinctively to
silence it.

"Why," said Mabel; and then stared at the man with the young face and
the white hair.

Oliver opened his lips and closed them again. He, too, had a strange
excitement in his face. Then he spoke.

"Who is