h things had been left behind a year ago; it
was not an affair of consonant tastes, but of passion. From each there
had looked deep inner eyes; there had been on either side a steady and
fearless scrutiny, and then the two souls had leapt together in a bright
flame of desire, knowing that each was made for the other. There had
been so little love-making, so few speeches after the first meeting or
two, so few letters exchanged, and fewer embraces. The last veils had
fallen at the fury of Chris's intervention, and they had known then what
had been inevitable all along.

Ralph smiled to himself as he remembered how little he had said or she
had answered; there had been no need to say anything. And then his eyes
grew wide and passionate, and his hands gripped one another fiercely, as
the memory died, and the burning flame of desire flared within him again
from the deep well he bore in his heart. The world of affairs and
explanations and evasions faded into twilight, and there was but one
thing left, his love and hers. It was to that that he would appeal.

He sat so a moment longer, and then took up his pen again, though it
shook in his hand, and went on with his reckonings.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was perfectly composed half an hour later as he went downstairs to
meet her. He had finished his line of figures sedately when the man
looked in to say that she was below; and had sat yet a moment longer,
trying to remember mechanically what it was he had determined to tell
her. Bah! it was trifling and unimportant; words did not affect the
question; all the wrecked convents in the world could not touch the one
fact that lay in fire at his heart. He would say nothing; she would
understand.

In the tiny entrance hall there was a whiff of fragrance where she had
passed through; and his heart stirred in answer. Then he opened the
door, stepped through and closed it behind him.

She was standing upright by the hearth, and faced him as he entered. He
was aware of her blue mantle, her white, jewelled head-dress, one hand
gripping the mantel-shelf, her pale steady face and bright eyes. Behind
there was the warm rich panelling, and the leaping glow of the wood
fire.

She made no movement.

Outside the lane was filled with street noises, the cries of children,
the voices of men who went by talking, the rumble of a waggon coming
with the crack of whips and jingle of bells from the river. The wheels
came up and went past into silence again before either spoke or moved.

Then Ralph lifted his hands a little and let them drop, as he stared at
her face. From her eyes looked out her will, tense as steel; and his own
shook to meet it.

"Well?" she said at last; and her voice was perfectly steady.

"Beatrice," cried Ralph; and the agony of it tore his heart.

She dropped her hand to her side and still looked at him without
flinching.

"Beatrice," cried Ralph once more.

"Then you have no more to say--after last night?"

A torrent of thoughts broke loose in his brain, and he tried to snatch
one as they fled past--to say one word. His excuses went by him like
phantoms; they bewildered and dazed him. Why, there were a thousand
things to say, and each was convincing if he could but say it. The cloud
passed and there were her eyes watching him still.

"Then that is all?" she said.

Again the cloud fell on him; little scenes piteously clear rose before
him, of the road by Rusper convent, Layton's leering face, a stripped
altar; and for each there was a tale if he could but tell it. And still
the bright eyes never flinched.

It seemed to him as if she was watching him curiously; her lips were
parted, and her head was a little on one side; her face interested and
impersonal.

"Why, Beatrice--" he cried again.

Then her love shook her like a storm; he had never dreamed she could
look like that; her mouth shook; he could see her white teeth clenched;
and a shiver went over her. He took one step forward, but stopped again,
for the black eyes shone through the passion that swayed her, as keen
and remorseless as ever.

He dropped on to his knees at the table and buried his face in his
hands. He knew nothing now but that he had lost her.

That was her voice speaking now, as steady as her eyes; but he did not
hear a word she said. Words were nothing; they were not so much as those
cries from the street, that shrill boy's voice over the way; not so much
as the sighing crackle from the hearth where he had caused a fire to be
lighted lest she should feel cold.

She was still speaking, but her voice had moved; she was no longer by
the fire. He could feel the warmth of the fire now on his hands. But he
dared not move nor look up; there was but one thing left for him--that
he had lost her!

That was her hand on the latch; a breath of cold air stirred his hair;
and still she was speaking. He understood a little more now; she knew it
all--his doings--what he had said last night--and there was not one word
to say in answer. Her short lashing sentences fell on his defenceless
soul, but all sense was dead, and he watched with a dazed impersonalness
how eac