raised on a dais,
stood at the head.

Each man went straight to his chair in silence, and remained there,
waiting.

* * * * *

The room was beautifully cool, in spite of the absence of windows, and
was a pleasant contrast to the hot evening outside through which most of
these men had come. They, too, had wondered at the surprising weather,
and had smiled at the conflict of the infallible. But they were not
thinking about that now: the coming of the President was a matter which
always silenced the most loquacious. Besides, this time, they understood
that the affair was more serious than usual.

At one minute before the hour, again a bell sounded, four times, and
ceased; and at the signal each man turned instinctively to the high
sliding door behind the Presidential chair. There was dead silence
within and without: the huge Government offices were luxuriously
provided with sound-deadening apparatus, and not even the rolling of the
vast motors within a hundred yards was able to send a vibration through
the layers of rubber on which the walls rested. There was only one noise
that could penetrate, and that the sound of thunder. The experts were at
present unable to exclude this.

Again the silence seemed to fall in one yet deeper veil. Then the door
opened, and a figure came swiftly through, followed by Another in black
and scarlet.




II

He passed straight up to the chair, followed by two secretaries, bowed
slightly to this side and that, sat down and made a little gesture. Then
they, too, were in their chairs, upright and intent. For perhaps the
hundredth time, Oliver, staring upon the President, marvelled at the
quietness and the astounding personality of Him. He was in the English
judicial dress that had passed down through centuries--black and scarlet
with sleeves of white fur and a crimson sash--and that had lately been
adopted as the English presidential costume of him who stood at the head
of the legislature. But it was in His personality, in the atmosphere
that flowed from Him, that the marvel lay. It was as the scent of the
sea to the physical nature--it exhilarated, cleansed, kindled,
intoxicated. It was as inexplicably attractive as a cherry orchard in
spring, as affecting as the cry of stringed instruments, as compelling
as a storm. So writers had said. They compared it to a stream of clear
water, to the flash of a gem, to the love of woman. They lost all
decency sometimes; they said it fitted all moods, as the voice of many
waters; they called it again and again, as explicitly as possible, the
Divine Nature perfectly Incarnate at last....

Then Oliver's reflections dropped from him like a mantle, for the
President, with downcast eyes and head thrown back, made a little
gesture to the ruddy-faced secretary on His right; and this man, without
a movement, began to speak like an impersonal actor repeating his part.

* * * * *

"Gentlemen," he said, in an even, resonant voice, "the President is come
direct from Paris. This afternoon His Honour was in Berlin; this
morning, early, in Moscow. Yesterday in New York. To-night His Honour
must be in Turin; and to-morrow will begin to return through Spain,
North Africa, Greece and the southeastern states."

This was the usual formula for such speeches. The President spoke but
little himself now; but was careful for the information of his subjects
on occasions like this. His secretaries were perfectly trained, and this
speaker was no exception. After a slight pause, he continued:

"This is the business, gentlemen.

"Last Thursday, as you are aware, the Plenipotentaries signed the Test
Act in this room, and it was immediately communicated all over the
world. At sixteen o'clock His Honour received a message from a man named
Dolgorovski--who is, it is understood, one of the Cardinals of the
Catholic Church. This he claimed; and on inquiry it was found to be a
fact. His information confirmed what was already suspected--namely, that
there was a man claiming to be Pope, who had created (so the phrase is)
other cardinals, shortly after the destruction of Rome, subsequent to
which his own election took place in Jerusalem. It appears that this
Pope, with a good deal of statesmanship, has chosen to keep his own name
and place of residence a secret from even his own followers, with the
exception of the twelve cardinals; that he has done a great deal,
through the instrumentality of one of his cardinals in particular, and
through his new Order in general, towards the reorganisation of the
Catholic Church; and that at this moment he is living, apart from the
world, in complete security.

"His Honour blames Himself that He did not do more than suspect
something of the kind--misled, He thinks, by a belief that if there had
been a Pope, news would have been heard of it from other quarters, for,
as is well known, the entire structure of the Christian Church rests
upon him as upon a rock. Further, His Honour thinks inquiries should
have been made in the very place where now it is understood that this
Pope is living.

"The man's name, gentlemen, is Franklin---"

Oliver started uncontrollably, but 