lled boughs!'

'Didn't you know THAT?' cried another Daisy, and here they all began
shouting together, till the air seemed quite full of little shrill
voices. 'Silence, every one of you!' cried the Tiger-lily, waving itself
passionately from side to side, and trembling with excitement. 'They
know I can't get at them!' it panted, bending its quivering head towards
Alice, 'or they wouldn't dare to do it!'

'Never mind!' Alice said in a soothing tone, and stooping down to the
daisies, who were just beginning again, she whispered, 'If you don't
hold your tongues, I'll pick you!'

There was silence in a moment, and several of the pink daisies turned
white.

'That's right!' said the Tiger-lily. 'The daisies are worst of all. When
one speaks, they all begin together, and it's enough to make one wither
to hear the way they go on!'

'How is it you can all talk so nicely?' Alice said, hoping to get it
into a better temper by a compliment. 'I've been in many gardens before,
but none of the flowers could talk.'

'Put your hand down, and feel the ground,' said the Tiger-lily. 'Then
you'll know why.'

Alice did so. 'It's very hard,' she said, 'but I don't see what that has
to do with it.'

'In most gardens,' the Tiger-lily said, 'they make the beds too soft--so
that the flowers are always asleep.'

This sounded a very good reason, and Alice was quite pleased to know it.
'I never thought of that before!' she said.

'It's MY opinion that you never think AT ALL,' the Rose said in a rather
severe tone.

'I never saw anybody that looked stupider,' a Violet said, so suddenly,
that Alice quite jumped; for it hadn't spoken before.

'Hold YOUR tongue!' cried the Tiger-lily. 'As if YOU ever saw anybody!
You keep your head under the leaves, and snore away there, till you know
no more what's going on in the world, than if you were a bud!'

'Are there any more people in the garden besides me?' Alice said, not
choosing to notice the Rose's last remark.

'There's one other flower in the garden that can move about like you,'
said the Rose. 'I wonder how you do it--' ('You're always wondering,'
said the Tiger-lily), 'but she's more bushy than you are.'

'Is she like me?' Alice asked eagerly, for the thought crossed her mind,
'There's another little girl in the garden, somewhere!'

'Well, she has the same awkward shape as you,' the Rose said, 'but she's
redder--and her petals are shorter, I think.'

'Her petals are done up close, almost like a dahlia,' the Tiger-lily
interrupted: 'not tumbled about anyhow, like yours.'

'But that's not YOUR fault,' the Rose added kindly: 'you're beginning
to fade, you know--and then one can't help one's petals getting a little
untidy.'

Alice didn't like this idea at all: so, to change the subject, she asked
'Does she ever come out here?'

'I daresay you'll see her soon,' said the Rose. 'She's one of the thorny
kind.'

'Where does she wear the thorns?' Alice asked with some curiosity.

'Why all round her head, of course,' the Rose replied. 'I was wondering
YOU hadn't got some too. I thought it was the regular rule.'

'She's coming!' cried the Larkspur. 'I hear her footstep, thump, thump,
thump, along the gravel-walk!'

Alice looked round eagerly, and found that it was the Red Queen. 'She's
grown a good deal!' was her first remark. She had indeed: when Alice
first found her in the ashes, she had been only three inches high--and
here she was, half a head taller than Alice herself!

'It's the fresh air that does it,' said the Rose: 'wonderfully fine air
it is, out here.'

'I think I'll go and meet her,' said Alice, for, though the flowers were
interesting enough, she felt that it would be far grander to have a talk
with a real Queen.

'You can't possibly do that,' said the Rose: '_I_ should advise you to
walk the other way.'

This sounded nonsense to Alice, so she said nothing, but set off at
once towards the Red Queen. To her surprise, she lost sight of her in a
moment, and found herself walking in at the front-door again.

A little provoked, she drew back, and after looking everywhere for the
queen (whom she spied out at last, a long way off), she thought she
would try the plan, this time, of walking in the opposite direction.

It succeeded beautifully. She had not been walking a minute before she
found herself face to face with the Red Queen, and full in sight of the
hill she had been so long aiming at.

'Where do you come from?' said the Red Queen. 'And where are you going?
Look up, speak nicely, and don't twiddle your fingers all the time.'

Alice attended to all these directions, and explained, as well as she
could, that she had lost her way.

'I don't know what you mean by YOUR way,' said the Queen: 'all the ways
about here belong to ME--but why did you come out here at all?' she
added in a kinder tone. 'Curtsey while you're thinking what to say, it
saves time.'

Alice wondered a little at this, but she was too much in awe of the
Queen to disbelieve it. 'I'll try it when I go home,' she thought to
herself, 'the next time I'm a little late for dinner.'

'It's time for you to answer now,' the Queen said, looking at her w