 were full of dough,
     Who snorted like a buffalo--
     That summer evening, long ago,
      A-sitting on a gate.'


As the Knight sang the last words of the ballad, he gathered up the
reins, and turned his horse's head along the road by which they had
come. 'You've only a few yards to go,' he said, 'down the hill and over
that little brook, and then you'll be a Queen--But you'll stay and
see me off first?' he added as Alice turned with an eager look in the
direction to which he pointed. 'I shan't be long. You'll wait and wave
your handkerchief when I get to that turn in the road? I think it'll
encourage me, you see.'

'Of course I'll wait,' said Alice: 'and thank you very much for coming
so far--and for the song--I liked it very much.'

'I hope so,' the Knight said doubtfully: 'but you didn't cry so much as
I thought you would.'

So they shook hands, and then the Knight rode slowly away into the
forest. 'It won't take long to see him OFF, I expect,' Alice said to
herself, as she stood watching him. 'There he goes! Right on his head as
usual! However, he gets on again pretty easily--that comes of having so
many things hung round the horse--' So she went on talking to herself,
as she watched the horse walking leisurely along the road, and the
Knight tumbling off, first on one side and then on the other. After
the fourth or fifth tumble he reached the turn, and then she waved her
handkerchief to him, and waited till he was out of sight.

'I hope it encouraged him,' she said, as she turned to run down the
hill: 'and now for the last brook, and to be a Queen! How grand it
sounds!' A very few steps brought her to the edge of the brook. 'The
Eighth Square at last!' she cried as she bounded across,

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

and threw herself down to rest on a lawn as soft as moss, with little
flower-beds dotted about it here and there. 'Oh, how glad I am to get
here! And what IS this on my head?' she exclaimed in a tone of dismay,
as she put her hands up to something very heavy, and fitted tight all
round her head.

'But how CAN it have got there without my knowing it?' she said to
herself, as she lifted it off, and set it on her lap to make out what it
could possibly be.

It was a golden crown.




CHAPTER IX. Queen Alice

'Well, this IS grand!' said Alice. 'I never expected I should be a Queen
so soon--and I'll tell you what it is, your majesty,' she went on in
a severe tone (she was always rather fond of scolding herself), 'it'll
never do for you to be lolling about on the grass like that! Queens have
to be dignified, you know!'

So she got up and walked about--rather stiffly just at first, as she was
afraid that the crown might come off: but she comforted herself with the
thought that there was nobody to see her, 'and if I really am a Queen,'
she said as she sat down again, 'I shall be able to manage it quite well
in time.'

Everything was happening so oddly that she didn't feel a bit surprised
at finding the Red Queen and the White Queen sitting close to her, one
on each side: she would have liked very much to ask them how they came
there, but she feared it would not be quite civil. However, there would
be no harm, she thought, in asking if the game was over. 'Please, would
you tell me--' she began, looking timidly at the Red Queen.

'Speak when you're spoken to!' The Queen sharply interrupted her.

'But if everybody obeyed that rule,' said Alice, who was always ready
for a little argument, 'and if you only spoke when you were spoken to,
and the other person always waited for YOU to begin, you see nobody
would ever say anything, so that--'

'Ridiculous!' cried the Queen. 'Why, don't you see, child--' here she
broke off with a frown, and, after thinking for a minute, suddenly
changed the subject of the conversation. 'What do you mean by "If you
really are a Queen"? What right have you to call yourself so? You can't
be a Queen, you know, till you've passed the proper examination. And the
sooner we begin it, the better.'

'I only said "if"!' poor Alice pleaded in a piteous tone.

The two Queens looked at each other, and the Red Queen remarked, with a
little shudder, 'She SAYS she only said "if"--'

'But she said a great deal more than that!' the White Queen moaned,
wringing her hands. 'Oh, ever so much more than that!'

'So you did, you know,' the Red Queen said to Alice. 'Always speak the
truth--think before you speak--and write it down afterwards.'

'I'm sure I didn't mean--' Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen
interrupted her impatiently.

'That's just what I complain of! You SHOULD have meant! What do you
suppose is the use of child without any meaning? Even a joke should
have some meaning--and a child's more important than a joke, I hope. You
couldn't deny that, even if you tried with both hands.'

'I don't deny things with my HANDS,' Alice objected.

'Nobody said you did,' said the Red Queen. 'I said you couldn't if you
tried.'

'She's in that state of mind,' said the White Queen, 'that she wants to
deny SOMETHING--only she doesn't know what