 out 'Ten minutes allowed for
refreshments!' Haigha and Hatta set to work at once, carrying rough
trays of white and brown bread. Alice took a piece to taste, but it was
VERY dry.

'I don't think they'll fight any more to-day,' the King said to Hatta:
'go and order the drums to begin.' And Hatta went bounding away like a
grasshopper.

For a minute or two Alice stood silent, watching him. Suddenly she
brightened up. 'Look, look!' she cried, pointing eagerly. 'There's the
White Queen running across the country! She came flying out of the wood
over yonder--How fast those Queens CAN run!'

'There's some enemy after her, no doubt,' the King said, without even
looking round. 'That wood's full of them.'

'But aren't you going to run and help her?' Alice asked, very much
surprised at his taking it so quietly.

'No use, no use!' said the King. 'She runs so fearfully quick. You might
as well try to catch a Bandersnatch! But I'll make a memorandum about
her, if you like--She's a dear good creature,' he repeated softly to
himself, as he opened his memorandum-book. 'Do you spell "creature" with
a double "e"?'

At this moment the Unicorn sauntered by them, with his hands in his
pockets. 'I had the best of it this time?' he said to the King, just
glancing at him as he passed.

'A little--a little,' the King replied, rather nervously. 'You shouldn't
have run him through with your horn, you know.'

'It didn't hurt him,' the Unicorn said carelessly, and he was going
on, when his eye happened to fall upon Alice: he turned round rather
instantly, and stood for some time looking at her with an air of the
deepest disgust.

'What--is--this?' he said at last.

'This is a child!' Haigha replied eagerly, coming in front of Alice
to introduce her, and spreading out both his hands towards her in an
Anglo-Saxon attitude. 'We only found it to-day. It's as large as life,
and twice as natural!'

'I always thought they were fabulous monsters!' said the Unicorn. 'Is it
alive?'

'It can talk,' said Haigha, solemnly.

The Unicorn looked dreamily at Alice, and said 'Talk, child.'

Alice could not help her lips curling up into a smile as she began: 'Do
you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too! I never
saw one alive before!'

'Well, now that we HAVE seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll
believe in me, I'll believe in you. Is that a bargain?'

'Yes, if you like,' said Alice.

'Come, fetch out the plum-cake, old man!' the Unicorn went on, turning
from her to the King. 'None of your brown bread for me!'

'Certainly--certainly!' the King muttered, and beckoned to Haigha. 'Open
the bag!' he whispered. 'Quick! Not that one--that's full of hay!'

Haigha took a large cake out of the bag, and gave it to Alice to hold,
while he got out a dish and carving-knife. How they all came out of it
Alice couldn't guess. It was just like a conjuring-trick, she thought.

The Lion had joined them while this was going on: he looked very
tired and sleepy, and his eyes were half shut. 'What's this!' he said,
blinking lazily at Alice, and speaking in a deep hollow tone that
sounded like the tolling of a great bell.

'Ah, what IS it, now?' the Unicorn cried eagerly. 'You'll never guess!
_I_ couldn't.'

The Lion looked at Alice wearily. 'Are you animal--vegetable--or
mineral?' he said, yawning at every other word.

'It's a fabulous monster!' the Unicorn cried out, before Alice could
reply.

'Then hand round the plum-cake, Monster,' the Lion said, lying down and
putting his chin on this paws. 'And sit down, both of you,' (to the King
and the Unicorn): 'fair play with the cake, you know!'

The King was evidently very uncomfortable at having to sit down between
the two great creatures; but there was no other place for him.

'What a fight we might have for the crown, NOW!' the Unicorn said,
looking slyly up at the crown, which the poor King was nearly shaking
off his head, he trembled so much.

'I should win easy,' said the Lion.

'I'm not so sure of that,' said the Unicorn.

'Why, I beat you all round the town, you chicken!' the Lion replied
angrily, half getting up as he spoke.

Here the King interrupted, to prevent the quarrel going on: he was very
nervous, and his voice quite quivered. 'All round the town?' he
said. 'That's a good long way. Did you go by the old bridge, or the
market-place? You get the best view by the old bridge.'

'I'm sure I don't know,' the Lion growled out as he lay down again.
'There was too much dust to see anything. What a time the Monster is,
cutting up that cake!'

Alice had seated herself on the bank of a little brook, with the great
dish on her knees, and was sawing away diligently with the knife. 'It's
very provoking!' she said, in reply to the Lion (she was getting quite
used to being called 'the Monster'). 'I've cut several slices already,
but they always join on again!'

'You don't know how to manage Looking-glass cakes,' the Unicorn
remarked. 'Hand it round first, and cut it afterwards.'

This sounded nonsense, but Alice very obediently got up, and carried the
dish round, and the cake divided itself into three pieces as she di