d so.
'NOW cut it up,' said the Lion, as she returned to her place with the
empty dish.

'I say, this isn't fair!' cried the Unicorn, as Alice sat with the knife
in her hand, very much puzzled how to begin. 'The Monster has given the
Lion twice as much as me!'

'She's kept none for herself, anyhow,' said the Lion. 'Do you like
plum-cake, Monster?'

But before Alice could answer him, the drums began.

Where the noise came from, she couldn't make out: the air seemed full
of it, and it rang through and through her head till she felt quite
deafened. She started to her feet and sprang across the little brook in
her terror,

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

and had just time to see the Lion and the Unicorn rise to their feet,
with angry looks at being interrupted in their feast, before she dropped
to her knees, and put her hands over her ears, vainly trying to shut out
the dreadful uproar.

'If THAT doesn't "drum them out of town,"' she thought to herself,
'nothing ever will!'




CHAPTER VIII. 'It's my own Invention'

After a while the noise seemed gradually to die away, till all was dead
silence, and Alice lifted up her head in some alarm. There was no one
to be seen, and her first thought was that she must have been dreaming
about the Lion and the Unicorn and those queer Anglo-Saxon Messengers.
However, there was the great dish still lying at her feet, on which she
had tried to cut the plum-cake, 'So I wasn't dreaming, after all,' she
said to herself, 'unless--unless we're all part of the same dream. Only
I do hope it's MY dream, and not the Red King's! I don't like belonging
to another person's dream,' she went on in a rather complaining tone:
'I've a great mind to go and wake him, and see what happens!'

At this moment her thoughts were interrupted by a loud shouting of
'Ahoy! Ahoy! Check!' and a Knight dressed in crimson armour came
galloping down upon her, brandishing a great club. Just as he reached
her, the horse stopped suddenly: 'You're my prisoner!' the Knight cried,
as he tumbled off his horse.

Startled as she was, Alice was more frightened for him than for herself
at the moment, and watched him with some anxiety as he mounted again.
As soon as he was comfortably in the saddle, he began once more 'You're
my--' but here another voice broke in 'Ahoy! Ahoy! Check!' and Alice
looked round in some surprise for the new enemy.

This time it was a White Knight. He drew up at Alice's side, and tumbled
off his horse just as the Red Knight had done: then he got on again,
and the two Knights sat and looked at each other for some time without
speaking. Alice looked from one to the other in some bewilderment.

'She's MY prisoner, you know!' the Red Knight said at last.

'Yes, but then _I_ came and rescued her!' the White Knight replied.

'Well, we must fight for her, then,' said the Red Knight, as he took up
his helmet (which hung from the saddle, and was something the shape of a
horse's head), and put it on.

'You will observe the Rules of Battle, of course?' the White Knight
remarked, putting on his helmet too.

'I always do,' said the Red Knight, and they began banging away at each
other with such fury that Alice got behind a tree to be out of the way
of the blows.

'I wonder, now, what the Rules of Battle are,' she said to herself, as
she watched the fight, timidly peeping out from her hiding-place: 'one
Rule seems to be, that if one Knight hits the other, he knocks him off
his horse, and if he misses, he tumbles off himself--and another Rule
seems to be that they hold their clubs with their arms, as if they were
Punch and Judy--What a noise they make when they tumble! Just like
a whole set of fire-irons falling into the fender! And how quiet the
horses are! They let them get on and off them just as if they were
tables!'

Another Rule of Battle, that Alice had not noticed, seemed to be that
they always fell on their heads, and the battle ended with their both
falling off in this way, side by side: when they got up again, they
shook hands, and then the Red Knight mounted and galloped off.

'It was a glorious victory, wasn't it?' said the White Knight, as he
came up panting.

'I don't know,' Alice said doubtfully. 'I don't want to be anybody's
prisoner. I want to be a Queen.'

'So you will, when you've crossed the next brook,' said the White
Knight. 'I'll see you safe to the end of the wood--and then I must go
back, you know. That's the end of my move.'

'Thank you very much,' said Alice. 'May I help you off with your
helmet?' It was evidently more than he could manage by himself; however,
she managed to shake him out of it at last.

'Now one can breathe more easily,' said the Knight, putting back his
shaggy hair with both hands, and turning his gentle face and large mild
eyes to Alice. She thought she had never seen such a strange-looking
soldier in all her life.

He was dressed in tin armour, which seemed to fit him very badly, and
he had a queer-shaped little deal box fastened across his shoulder,
upside-down, and with the lid hanging open. Alice looked at i