at deal of puzzling,
was, 'L, I KNOW it begins with L!'

Just then a Fawn came wandering by: it looked at Alice with its large
gentle eyes, but didn't seem at all frightened. 'Here then! Here then!'
Alice said, as she held out her hand and tried to stroke it; but it only
started back a little, and then stood looking at her again.

'What do you call yourself?' the Fawn said at last. Such a soft sweet
voice it had!

'I wish I knew!' thought poor Alice. She answered, rather sadly,
'Nothing, just now.'

'Think again,' it said: 'that won't do.'

Alice thought, but nothing came of it. 'Please, would you tell me
what YOU call yourself?' she said timidly. 'I think that might help a
little.'

'I'll tell you, if you'll move a little further on,' the Fawn said. 'I
can't remember here.'

So they walked on together though the wood, Alice with her arms clasped
lovingly round the soft neck of the Fawn, till they came out into
another open field, and here the Fawn gave a sudden bound into the air,
and shook itself free from Alice's arms. 'I'm a Fawn!' it cried out in a
voice of delight, 'and, dear me! you're a human child!' A sudden look of
alarm came into its beautiful brown eyes, and in another moment it had
darted away at full speed.

Alice stood looking after it, almost ready to cry with vexation at
having lost her dear little fellow-traveller so suddenly. 'However, I
know my name now.' she said, 'that's SOME comfort. Alice--Alice--I won't
forget it again. And now, which of these finger-posts ought I to follow,
I wonder?'

It was not a very difficult question to answer, as there was only one
road through the wood, and the two finger-posts both pointed along it.
'I'll settle it,' Alice said to herself, 'when the road divides and they
point different ways.'

But this did not seem likely to happen. She went on and on, a long way,
but wherever the road divided there were sure to be two finger-posts
pointing the same way, one marked 'TO TWEEDLEDUM'S HOUSE' and the other
'TO THE HOUSE OF TWEEDLEDEE.'

'I do believe,' said Alice at last, 'that they live in the same house! I
wonder I never thought of that before--But I can't stay there long. I'll
just call and say "how d'you do?" and ask them the way out of the wood.
If I could only get to the Eighth Square before it gets dark!' So she
wandered on, talking to herself as she went, till, on turning a sharp
corner, she came upon two fat little men, so suddenly that she could not
help starting back, but in another moment she recovered herself, feeling
sure that they must be.




CHAPTER IV. Tweedledum And Tweedledee

They were standing under a tree, each with an arm round the other's
neck, and Alice knew which was which in a moment, because one of them
had 'DUM' embroidered on his collar, and the other 'DEE.' 'I suppose
they've each got "TWEEDLE" round at the back of the collar,' she said to
herself.

They stood so still that she quite forgot they were alive, and she was
just looking round to see if the word "TWEEDLE" was written at the back
of each collar, when she was startled by a voice coming from the one
marked 'DUM.'

'If you think we're wax-works,' he said, 'you ought to pay, you know.
Wax-works weren't made to be looked at for nothing, nohow!'

'Contrariwise,' added the one marked 'DEE,' 'if you think we're alive,
you ought to speak.'

'I'm sure I'm very sorry,' was all Alice could say; for the words of the
old song kept ringing through her head like the ticking of a clock, and
she could hardly help saying them out loud:--


     'Tweedledum and Tweedledee
      Agreed to have a battle;
     For Tweedledum said Tweedledee
      Had spoiled his nice new rattle.

     Just then flew down a monstrous crow,
      As black as a tar-barrel;
     Which frightened both the heroes so,
      They quite forgot their quarrel.'

'I know what you're thinking about,' said Tweedledum: 'but it isn't so,
nohow.'

'Contrariwise,' continued Tweedledee, 'if it was so, it might be; and if
it were so, it would be; but as it isn't, it ain't. That's logic.'

'I was thinking,' Alice said very politely, 'which is the best way out
of this wood: it's getting so dark. Would you tell me, please?'

But the little men only looked at each other and grinned.

They looked so exactly like a couple of great schoolboys, that Alice
couldn't help pointing her finger at Tweedledum, and saying 'First Boy!'

'Nohow!' Tweedledum cried out briskly, and shut his mouth up again with
a snap.

'Next Boy!' said Alice, passing on to Tweedledee, though she felt quite
certain he would only shout out 'Contrariwise!' and so he did.

'You've been wrong!' cried Tweedledum. 'The first thing in a visit is to
say "How d'ye do?" and shake hands!' And here the two brothers gave each
other a hug, and then they held out the two hands that were free, to
shake hands with her.

Alice did not like shaking hands with either of them first, for fear
of hurting the other one's feelings; so, as the best way out of the
difficulty, she took hold of both hands at once: the next moment they
were dancing round in a ring. This seemed quite natural (she remembered
after