ll. "I _can't_ find the one I want!" she
exclaimed at last, almost crying with vexation.

"What is it you want to find, my dear?" The voice was strange to Clara,
but so sweet and gentle that she felt attracted to the owner of it, even
before she had seen her; and when she turned, and met the smiling looks
of two little old ladies, whose round dimpled faces, exactly alike,
seemed never to have known a care, it was as much as she could do--as
she confessed to Aunt Mattie afterwards--to keep herself from hugging
them both.

"I was looking for a picture," she said, "that has a good subject--and
that's well arranged--but badly coloured."

The little old ladies glanced at each other in some alarm. "Calm
yourself, my dear," said the one who had spoken first, "and try to
remember which it was. What _was_ the subject?"

"Was it an elephant, for instance?" the other sister suggested. They
were still in sight of Lieutenant Brown.

"I don't know, indeed!" Clara impetuously replied. "You know it doesn't
matter a bit what the subject _is_, so long as it's a good one!"

Once more the sisters exchanged looks of alarm, and one of them
whispered something to the other, of which Clara caught only the one
word "mad."

"They mean Aunt Mattie, of course," she said to herself--fancying, in
her innocence, that London was like her native town, where everybody
knew everybody else. "If you mean my aunt," she added aloud, "she's
_there_--just three pictures beyond Lieutenant Brown."

"Ah, well! Then you'd better go to her, my dear!" her new friend said,
soothingly. "_She'll_ find you the picture you want. Good-bye, dear!"

"Good-bye, dear!" echoed the other sister, "Mind you don't lose sight of
your aunt!" And the pair trotted off into another room, leaving Clara
rather perplexed at their manner.

"They're real darlings!" she soliloquised. "I wonder why they pity me
so!" And she wandered on, murmuring to herself "It must have two good
marks, and----"




KNOT VI.

HER RADIANCY.

   "One piecee thing that my have got,
     Maskee[A] that thing my no can do.
   You talkee you no sabey what?
               Bamboo."


They landed, and were at once conducted to the Palace. About half way
they were met by the Governor, who welcomed them in English--a great
relief to our travellers, whose guide could speak nothing but Kgovjnian.

"I don't half like the way they grin at us as we go by!" the old man
whispered to his son. "And why do they say 'Bamboo!' so often?"

"It alludes to a local custom," replied the Governor, who had overheard
the question. "Such persons as happen in any way to displease Her
Radiancy are usually beaten with rods."

[Illustration: "WHY DO THEY SAY 'BAMBOO!' SO OFTEN?"]

The old man shuddered. "A most objectional local custom!" he remarked
with strong emphasis. "I wish we had never landed! Did you notice that
black fellow, Norman, opening his great mouth at us? I verily believe he
would like to eat us!"

Norman appealed to the Governor, who was walking at his other side. "Do
they often eat distinguished strangers here?" he said, in as indifferent
a tone as he could assume.

"Not often--not ever!" was the welcome reply. "They are not good for it.
Pigs we eat, for they are fat. This old man is thin."

"And thankful to be so!" muttered the elder traveller. "Beaten we shall
be without a doubt. It's a comfort to know it won't be Beaten without
the B! My dear boy, just look at the peacocks!"

They were now walking between two unbroken lines of those gorgeous
birds, each held in check, by means of a golden collar and chain, by a
black slave, who stood well behind, so as not to interrupt the view of
the glittering tail, with its network of rustling feathers and its
hundred eyes.

The Governor smiled proudly. "In your honour," he said, "Her Radiancy
has ordered up ten thousand additional peacocks. She will, no doubt,
decorate you, before you go, with the usual Star and Feathers."

"It'll be Star without the S!" faltered one of his hearers.

"Come, come! Don't lose heart!" said the other. "All this is full of
charm for me."

"You are young, Norman," sighed his father; "young and light-hearted.
For me, it is Charm without the C."

"The old one is sad," the Governor remarked with some anxiety. "He has,
without doubt, effected some fearful crime?"

"But I haven't!" the poor old gentleman hastily exclaimed. "Tell him I
haven't, Norman!"

"He has not, as yet," Norman gently explained. And the Governor
repeated, in a satisfied tone, "Not as yet."

"Yours is a wondrous country!" the Governor resumed, after a pause. "Now
here is a letter from a friend of mine, a merchant, in London. He and
his brother went there a year ago, with a thousand pounds apiece; and on
New-Year's-day they had sixty thousand pounds between them!"

"How did they do it?" Norman eagerly exclaimed. Even the elder traveller
looked excited.

The Governor handed him the open letter. "Anybody can do it, when once
they know how," so ran this oracular document. "We borrowed nought: we
stole nought. We began the year with only a thousand pounds apiece: and
last New-Year's-day we had sixty thou