"In
fact, you'd be the better, I'm certain!"

"Neither does our excellent preceptress approve of puns," said Clara.
"But we'll have a match, if you like. Let me choose my train," she added
after a brief mental calculation, "and I'll engage to meet exactly half
as many again as you do."

"Not if you count fair," Mad Mathesis bluntly interrupted. "Remember, we
only count the trains we meet _on the way_. You mustn't count the one
that starts as you start, nor the one that arrives as you arrive."

"That will only make the difference of _one_ train," said Clara, as they
turned and entered the station. "But I never travelled alone before.
There'll be no one to help me to alight. However, I don't mind. Let's
have a match."

A ragged little boy overheard her remark, and came running after her.
"Buy a box of cigar-lights, Miss!" he pleaded, pulling her shawl to
attract her attention. Clara stopped to explain.

"I never smoke cigars," she said in a meekly apologetic tone. "Our
excellent preceptress----," but Mad Mathesis impatiently hurried her on,
and the little boy was left gazing after her with round eyes of
amazement.

The two ladies bought their tickets and moved slowly down the central
platform, Mad Mathesis prattling on as usual--Clara silent, anxiously
reconsidering the calculation on which she rested her hopes of winning
the match.

"Mind where you go, dear!" cried her aunt, checking her just in time.
"One step more, and you'd have been in that pail of cold water!"

"I know, I know," Clara said, dreamily. "The pale, the cold, and the
moony----"

"Take your places on the spring-boards!" shouted a porter.

"What are _they_ for!" Clara asked in a terrified whisper.

"Merely to help us into the trains." The elder lady spoke with the
nonchalance of one quite used to the process. "Very few people can get
into a carriage without help in less than three seconds, and the trains
only stop for one second." At this moment the whistle was heard, and two
trains rushed into the station. A moment's pause, and they were gone
again; but in that brief interval several hundred passengers had been
shot into them, each flying straight to his place with the accuracy of a
Minie bullet--while an equal number were showered out upon the
side-platforms.

Three hours had passed away, and the two friends met again on the
Charing Cross platform, and eagerly compared notes. Then Clara turned
away with a sigh. To young impulsive hearts, like hers, disappointment
is always a bitter pill. Mad Mathesis followed her, full of kindly
sympathy.

"Try again, my love!" she said, cheerily. "Let us vary the experiment.
We will start as we did before, but not to begin counting till our
trains meet. When we see each other, we will say 'One!' and so count on
till we come here again."

Clara brightened up. "I shall win _that_," she exclaimed eagerly, "if I
may choose my train!"

Another shriek of engine whistles, another upheaving of spring-boards,
another living avalanche plunging into two trains as they flashed by:
and the travellers were off again.

Each gazed eagerly from her carriage window, holding up her handkerchief
as a signal to her friend. A rush and a roar. Two trains shot past each
other in a tunnel, and two travellers leaned back in their corners with
a sigh--or rather with _two_ sighs--of relief. "One!" Clara murmured to
herself. "Won! It's a word of good omen. _This_ time, at any rate, the
victory will be mine!"

But _was_ it?




KNOT IV.

THE DEAD RECKONING.

   "I did dream of money-bags to-night."


Noonday on the open sea within a few degrees of the Equator is apt to be
oppressively warm; and our two travellers were now airily clad in suits
of dazzling white linen, having laid aside the chain-armour which they
had found not only endurable in the cold mountain air they had lately
been breathing, but a necessary precaution against the daggers of the
banditti who infested the heights. Their holiday-trip was over, and they
were now on their way home, in the monthly packet which plied between
the two great ports of the island they had been exploring.

Along with their armour, the tourists had laid aside the antiquated
speech it had pleased them to affect while in knightly disguise, and
had returned to the ordinary style of two country gentlemen of the
Twentieth Century.

Stretched on a pile of cushions, under the shade of a huge umbrella,
they were lazily watching some native fishermen, who had come on board
at the last landing-place, each carrying over his shoulder a small but
heavy sack. A large weighing-machine, that had been used for cargo at
the last port, stood on the deck; and round this the fishermen had
gathered, and, with much unintelligible jabber, seemed to be weighing
their sacks.

"More like sparrows in a tree than human talk, isn't it?" the elder
tourist remarked to his son, who smiled feebly, but would not exert
himself so far as to speak. The old man tried another listener.

"What have they got in those sacks, Captain?" he inquired, as that great
being passed them in his never ending parade to and fro on the deck.

The Captain paused in his