rst assuming that a bun is 1_d._ and a queen-cake 2_d._,
and then that a bun is 3_d._ and a queen-cake 3_d._, he will bring out
the other two luncheons, on each assumption, as "one-and-nine-pence" and
"four-and-ten-pence" respectively, which harmony of results, he will
say, "shows that the answers are correct." And yet, as a matter of fact,
the buns were 2_d._ each, the queen-cakes 3_d._, the sausage-rolls
6_d._, and the Zoëdone 2_d._ a bottle: so that Clara's third luncheon
had cost one-and-sevenpence, and her thirsty friends had spent
four-and-fourpence!

Another remark of BALBUS I will quote and discuss: for I think that it
also may yield a moral for some of my readers. He says "it is the same
thing in substance whether in solving this problem we use words and call
it Arithmetic, or use letters and signs and call it Algebra." Now this
does not appear to me a correct description of the two methods: the
Arithmetical method is that of "synthesis" only; it goes from one known
fact to another, till it reaches its goal: whereas the Algebraical
method is that of "analysis": it begins with the goal, symbolically
represented, and so goes backwards, dragging its veiled victim with it,
till it has reached the full daylight of known facts, in which it can
tear off the veil and say "I know you!"

Take an illustration. Your house has been broken into and robbed, and
you appeal to the policeman who was on duty that night. "Well, Mum, I
did see a chap getting out over your garden-wall: but I was a good bit
off, so I didn't chase him, like. I just cut down the short way to the
Chequers, and who should I meet but Bill Sykes, coming full split round
the corner. So I just ups and says 'My lad, you're wanted.' That's all I
says. And he says 'I'll go along quiet, Bobby,' he says, 'without the
darbies,' he says." There's your _Arithmetical_ policeman. Now try the
other method. "I seed somebody a running, but he was well gone or ever
_I_ got nigh the place. So I just took a look round in the garden. And I
noticed the foot-marks, where the chap had come right across your
flower-beds. They was good big foot-marks sure-ly. And I noticed as the
left foot went down at the heel, ever so much deeper than the other. And
I says to myself 'The chap's been a big hulking chap: and he goes lame
on his left foot.' And I rubs my hand on the wall where he got over, and
there was soot on it, and no mistake. So I says to myself 'Now where can
I light on a big man, in the chimbley-sweep line, what's lame of one
foot?' And I flashes up permiscuous: and I says 'It's Bill Sykes!' says
I." There is your _Algebraical_ policeman--a higher intellectual type,
to my thinking, than the other.

LITTLE JACK'S solution calls for a word of praise, as he has written out
what really is an algebraical proof _in words_, without representing any
of his facts as equations. If it is all his own, he will make a good
algebraist in the time to come. I beg to thank SIMPLE SUSAN for some
kind words of sympathy, to the same effect as those received from OLD
CAT.

HECLA and MARTREB are the only two who have used a method _certain_
either to produce the answer, or else to prove it impossible: so they
must share between them the highest honours.


CLASS LIST.

I.

   HECLA.
   MARTREB.

II.

§ 1 (2 _steps_).

   ADELAIDE.
   CLIFTON C....
   E. K. C.
   GUY.
   L'INCONNU.
   LITTLE JACK.
   NIL DESPERANDUM.
   SIMPLE SUSAN.
   YELLOW-HAMMER.
   WOOLLY ONE.

§ 2 (3 _steps_).

   A. A.
   A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
   AFTERNOON TEA.
   AN APPRECIATIVE SCHOOLMA'AM.
   BABY.
   BALBUS.
   BOG-OAK.
   THE RED QUEEN.
   WALL-FLOWER.

§ 3 (4 _steps_).

   HAWTHORN.
   JORAM.
   S. S. G.

§ 4 (5 _steps_).

   A STEPNEY COACH.

§ 5 (6 _steps_).

   BAY LAUREL.
   BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE.

§ 6 (9 _steps_).

   OLD KING COLE.

§ 7 (14 _steps_).

   THESEUS.


ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

I have received several letters on the subjects of Knots II. and VI.,
which lead me to think some further explanation desirable.

In Knot II., I had intended the numbering of the houses to begin at one
corner of the Square, and this was assumed by most, if not all, of the
competitors. TROJANUS however says "assuming, in default of any
information, that the street enters the square in the middle of each
side, it may be supposed that the numbering begins at a street." But
surely the other is the more natural assumption?

In Knot VI., the first Problem was of course a mere _jeu de mots_, whose
presence I thought excusable in a series of Problems whose aim is to
entertain rather than to instruct: but it has not escaped the
contemptuous criticisms of two of my correspondents, who seem to think
that Apollo is in duty bound to keep his bow always on the stretch.
Neither of them has guessed it: and this is true human nature. Only the
other day--the 31st of September, to be quite exact--I met my old friend
Brown, and gave him a riddle I had just heard. With one great effort of
his colossal mind, Brown guessed it. "Right!" said I. "Ah," said he,
"it's very neat--very neat. And it isn't an answer that would occur to
everybody. Very neat inde