ick,
     After we've brought them out so far,
      And made them trot so quick!"
     The Carpenter said nothing but
      "The butter's spread too thick!"

     "I weep for you," the Walrus said.
      "I deeply sympathize."
     With sobs and tears he sorted out
      Those of the largest size.
     Holding his pocket handkerchief
      Before his streaming eyes.

     "O Oysters," said the Carpenter.
      "You've had a pleasant run!
     Shall we be trotting home again?"
      But answer came there none--
     And that was scarcely odd, because
      They'd eaten every one.'

'I like the Walrus best,' said Alice: 'because you see he was a LITTLE
sorry for the poor oysters.'

'He ate more than the Carpenter, though,' said Tweedledee. 'You see he
held his handkerchief in front, so that the Carpenter couldn't count how
many he took: contrariwise.'

'That was mean!' Alice said indignantly. 'Then I like the Carpenter
best--if he didn't eat so many as the Walrus.'

'But he ate as many as he could get,' said Tweedledum.

This was a puzzler. After a pause, Alice began, 'Well! They were BOTH
very unpleasant characters--' Here she checked herself in some alarm,
at hearing something that sounded to her like the puffing of a large
steam-engine in the wood near them, though she feared it was more likely
to be a wild beast. 'Are there any lions or tigers about here?' she
asked timidly.

'It's only the Red King snoring,' said Tweedledee.

'Come and look at him!' the brothers cried, and they each took one of
Alice's hands, and led her up to where the King was sleeping.

'Isn't he a LOVELY sight?' said Tweedledum.

Alice couldn't say honestly that he was. He had a tall red night-cap on,
with a tassel, and he was lying crumpled up into a sort of untidy heap,
and snoring loud--'fit to snore his head off!' as Tweedledum remarked.

'I'm afraid he'll catch cold with lying on the damp grass,' said Alice,
who was a very thoughtful little girl.

'He's dreaming now,' said Tweedledee: 'and what do you think he's
dreaming about?'

Alice said 'Nobody can guess that.'

'Why, about YOU!' Tweedledee exclaimed, clapping his hands triumphantly.
'And if he left off dreaming about you, where do you suppose you'd be?'

'Where I am now, of course,' said Alice.

'Not you!' Tweedledee retorted contemptuously. 'You'd be nowhere. Why,
you're only a sort of thing in his dream!'

'If that there King was to wake,' added Tweedledum, 'you'd go
out--bang!--just like a candle!'

'I shouldn't!' Alice exclaimed indignantly. 'Besides, if I'M only a sort
of thing in his dream, what are YOU, I should like to know?'

'Ditto' said Tweedledum.

'Ditto, ditto' cried Tweedledee.

He shouted this so loud that Alice couldn't help saying, 'Hush! You'll
be waking him, I'm afraid, if you make so much noise.'

'Well, it no use YOUR talking about waking him,' said Tweedledum, 'when
you're only one of the things in his dream. You know very well you're
not real.'

'I AM real!' said Alice and began to cry.

'You won't make yourself a bit realler by crying,' Tweedledee remarked:
'there's nothing to cry about.'

'If I wasn't real,' Alice said--half-laughing through her tears, it all
seemed so ridiculous--'I shouldn't be able to cry.'

'I hope you don't suppose those are real tears?' Tweedledum interrupted
in a tone of great contempt.

'I know they're talking nonsense,' Alice thought to herself: 'and it's
foolish to cry about it.' So she brushed away her tears, and went on as
cheerfully as she could. 'At any rate I'd better be getting out of the
wood, for really it's coming on very dark. Do you think it's going to
rain?'

Tweedledum spread a large umbrella over himself and his brother, and
looked up into it. 'No, I don't think it is,' he said: 'at least--not
under HERE. Nohow.'

'But it may rain OUTSIDE?'

'It may--if it chooses,' said Tweedledee: 'we've no objection.
Contrariwise.'

'Selfish things!' thought Alice, and she was just going to say
'Good-night' and leave them, when Tweedledum sprang out from under the
umbrella and seized her by the wrist.

'Do you see THAT?' he said, in a voice choking with passion, and
his eyes grew large and yellow all in a moment, as he pointed with a
trembling finger at a small white thing lying under the tree.

'It's only a rattle,' Alice said, after a careful examination of the
little white thing. 'Not a rattleSNAKE, you know,' she added hastily,
thinking that he was frightened: 'only an old rattle--quite old and
broken.'

'I knew it was!' cried Tweedledum, beginning to stamp about wildly and
tear his hair. 'It's spoilt, of course!' Here he looked at Tweedledee,
who immediately sat down on the ground, and tried to hide himself under
the umbrella.

Alice laid her hand upon his arm, and said in a soothing tone, 'You
needn't be so angry about an old rattle.'

'But it isn't old!' Tweedledum cried, in a greater fury than ever. 'It's
new, I tell you--I bought it yesterday--my nice new RATTLE!' and his
voice rose to a perfect scream.

All this time Tweedledee was trying his best to fold up the umbrella,
with himself in it: which was such an extraordinary thing