 to deny!'

'A nasty, vicious temper,' the Red Queen remarked; and then there was an
uncomfortable silence for a minute or two.

The Red Queen broke the silence by saying to the White Queen, 'I invite
you to Alice's dinner-party this afternoon.'

The White Queen smiled feebly, and said 'And I invite YOU.'

'I didn't know I was to have a party at all,' said Alice; 'but if there
is to be one, I think _I_ ought to invite the guests.'

'We gave you the opportunity of doing it,' the Red Queen remarked: 'but
I daresay you've not had many lessons in manners yet?'

'Manners are not taught in lessons,' said Alice. 'Lessons teach you to
do sums, and things of that sort.'

'And you do Addition?' the White Queen asked. 'What's one and one and
one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one?'

'I don't know,' said Alice. 'I lost count.'

'She can't do Addition,' the Red Queen interrupted. 'Can you do
Subtraction? Take nine from eight.'

'Nine from eight I can't, you know,' Alice replied very readily: 'but--'

'She can't do Subtraction,' said the White Queen. 'Can you do Division?
Divide a loaf by a knife--what's the answer to that?'

'I suppose--' Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen answered for her.
'Bread-and-butter, of course. Try another Subtraction sum. Take a bone
from a dog: what remains?'

Alice considered. 'The bone wouldn't remain, of course, if I took
it--and the dog wouldn't remain; it would come to bite me--and I'm sure
I shouldn't remain!'

'Then you think nothing would remain?' said the Red Queen.

'I think that's the answer.'

'Wrong, as usual,' said the Red Queen: 'the dog's temper would remain.'

'But I don't see how--'

'Why, look here!' the Red Queen cried. 'The dog would lose its temper,
wouldn't it?'

'Perhaps it would,' Alice replied cautiously.

'Then if the dog went away, its temper would remain!' the Queen
exclaimed triumphantly.

Alice said, as gravely as she could, 'They might go different ways.' But
she couldn't help thinking to herself, 'What dreadful nonsense we ARE
talking!'

'She can't do sums a BIT!' the Queens said together, with great
emphasis.

'Can YOU do sums?' Alice said, turning suddenly on the White Queen, for
she didn't like being found fault with so much.

The Queen gasped and shut her eyes. 'I can do Addition, if you give me
time--but I can't do Subtraction, under ANY circumstances!'

'Of course you know your A B C?' said the Red Queen.

'To be sure I do.' said Alice.

'So do I,' the White Queen whispered: 'we'll often say it over together,
dear. And I'll tell you a secret--I can read words of one letter! Isn't
THAT grand! However, don't be discouraged. You'll come to it in time.'

Here the Red Queen began again. 'Can you answer useful questions?' she
said. 'How is bread made?'

'I know THAT!' Alice cried eagerly. 'You take some flour--'

'Where do you pick the flower?' the White Queen asked. 'In a garden, or
in the hedges?'

'Well, it isn't PICKED at all,' Alice explained: 'it's GROUND--'

'How many acres of ground?' said the White Queen. 'You mustn't leave out
so many things.'

'Fan her head!' the Red Queen anxiously interrupted. 'She'll be feverish
after so much thinking.' So they set to work and fanned her with bunches
of leaves, till she had to beg them to leave off, it blew her hair about
so.

'She's all right again now,' said the Red Queen. 'Do you know Languages?
What's the French for fiddle-de-dee?'

'Fiddle-de-dee's not English,' Alice replied gravely.

'Who ever said it was?' said the Red Queen.

Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time. 'If you'll
tell me what language "fiddle-de-dee" is, I'll tell you the French for
it!' she exclaimed triumphantly.

But the Red Queen drew herself up rather stiffly, and said 'Queens never
make bargains.'

'I wish Queens never asked questions,' Alice thought to herself.

'Don't let us quarrel,' the White Queen said in an anxious tone. 'What
is the cause of lightning?'

'The cause of lightning,' Alice said very decidedly, for she felt quite
certain about this, 'is the thunder--no, no!' she hastily corrected
herself. 'I meant the other way.'

'It's too late to correct it,' said the Red Queen: 'when you've once
said a thing, that fixes it, and you must take the consequences.'

'Which reminds me--' the White Queen said, looking down and nervously
clasping and unclasping her hands, 'we had SUCH a thunderstorm last
Tuesday--I mean one of the last set of Tuesdays, you know.'

Alice was puzzled. 'In OUR country,' she remarked, 'there's only one day
at a time.'

The Red Queen said, 'That's a poor thin way of doing things. Now HERE,
we mostly have days and nights two or three at a time, and sometimes
in the winter we take as many as five nights together--for warmth, you
know.'

'Are five nights warmer than one night, then?' Alice ventured to ask.

'Five times as warm, of course.'

'But they should be five times as COLD, by the same rule--'

'Just so!' cried the Red Queen. 'Five times as warm, AND five times
as cold--just as I'm five times as rich as you are, AND five times as
clever!'

Alice sighed and gave it up. 'It's exact