atch:
'open your mouth a LITTLE wider when you speak, and always say "your
Majesty."'

'I only wanted to see what the garden was like, your Majesty--'

'That's right,' said the Queen, patting her on the head, which Alice
didn't like at all, 'though, when you say "garden,"--I'VE seen gardens,
compared with which this would be a wilderness.'

Alice didn't dare to argue the point, but went on: '--and I thought I'd
try and find my way to the top of that hill--'

'When you say "hill,"' the Queen interrupted, '_I_ could show you hills,
in comparison with which you'd call that a valley.'

'No, I shouldn't,' said Alice, surprised into contradicting her at last:
'a hill CAN'T be a valley, you know. That would be nonsense--'

The Red Queen shook her head, 'You may call it "nonsense" if you like,'
she said, 'but I'VE heard nonsense, compared with which that would be as
sensible as a dictionary!'

Alice curtseyed again, as she was afraid from the Queen's tone that she
was a LITTLE offended: and they walked on in silence till they got to
the top of the little hill.

For some minutes Alice stood without speaking, looking out in all
directions over the country--and a most curious country it was. There
were a number of tiny little brooks running straight across it from side
to side, and the ground between was divided up into squares by a number
of little green hedges, that reached from brook to brook.

'I declare it's marked out just like a large chessboard!' Alice said at
last. 'There ought to be some men moving about somewhere--and so there
are!' She added in a tone of delight, and her heart began to beat quick
with excitement as she went on. 'It's a great huge game of chess that's
being played--all over the world--if this IS the world at all, you know.
Oh, what fun it is! How I WISH I was one of them! I wouldn't mind being
a Pawn, if only I might join--though of course I should LIKE to be a
Queen, best.'

She glanced rather shyly at the real Queen as she said this, but her
companion only smiled pleasantly, and said, 'That's easily managed. You
can be the White Queen's Pawn, if you like, as Lily's too young to
play; and you're in the Second Square to begin with: when you get to
the Eighth Square you'll be a Queen--' Just at this moment, somehow or
other, they began to run.

Alice never could quite make out, in thinking it over afterwards, how it
was that they began: all she remembers is, that they were running hand
in hand, and the Queen went so fast that it was all she could do to keep
up with her: and still the Queen kept crying 'Faster! Faster!' but Alice
felt she COULD NOT go faster, though she had not breath left to say so.

The most curious part of the thing was, that the trees and the other
things round them never changed their places at all: however fast they
went, they never seemed to pass anything. 'I wonder if all the things
move along with us?' thought poor puzzled Alice. And the Queen seemed to
guess her thoughts, for she cried, 'Faster! Don't try to talk!'

Not that Alice had any idea of doing THAT. She felt as if she would
never be able to talk again, she was getting so much out of breath: and
still the Queen cried 'Faster! Faster!' and dragged her along. 'Are we
nearly there?' Alice managed to pant out at last.

'Nearly there!' the Queen repeated. 'Why, we passed it ten minutes ago!
Faster!' And they ran on for a time in silence, with the wind whistling
in Alice's ears, and almost blowing her hair off her head, she fancied.

'Now! Now!' cried the Queen. 'Faster! Faster!' And they went so fast
that at last they seemed to skim through the air, hardly touching the
ground with their feet, till suddenly, just as Alice was getting quite
exhausted, they stopped, and she found herself sitting on the ground,
breathless and giddy.

The Queen propped her up against a tree, and said kindly, 'You may rest
a little now.'

Alice looked round her in great surprise. 'Why, I do believe we've been
under this tree the whole time! Everything's just as it was!'

'Of course it is,' said the Queen, 'what would you have it?'

'Well, in OUR country,' said Alice, still panting a little, 'you'd
generally get to somewhere else--if you ran very fast for a long time,
as we've been doing.'

'A slow sort of country!' said the Queen. 'Now, HERE, you see, it takes
all the running YOU can do, to keep in the same place. If you want to
get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that!'

'I'd rather not try, please!' said Alice. 'I'm quite content to stay
here--only I AM so hot and thirsty!'

'I know what YOU'D like!' the Queen said good-naturedly, taking a little
box out of her pocket. 'Have a biscuit?'

Alice thought it would not be civil to say 'No,' though it wasn't at all
what she wanted. So she took it, and ate it as well as she could: and it
was VERY dry; and she thought she had never been so nearly choked in all
her life.

'While you're refreshing yourself,' said the Queen, 'I'll just take
the measurements.' And she took a ribbon out of her pocket, marked in
inches, and began measuring the ground, and sticking little pegs in here
and ther