e.

'At the end of two yards,' she said, putting in a peg to mark the
distance, 'I shall give you your directions--have another biscuit?'

'No, thank you,' said Alice: 'one's QUITE enough!'

'Thirst quenched, I hope?' said the Queen.

Alice did not know what to say to this, but luckily the Queen did not
wait for an answer, but went on. 'At the end of THREE yards I shall
repeat them--for fear of your forgetting them. At the end of FOUR, I
shall say good-bye. And at the end of FIVE, I shall go!'

She had got all the pegs put in by this time, and Alice looked on
with great interest as she returned to the tree, and then began slowly
walking down the row.

At the two-yard peg she faced round, and said, 'A pawn goes two squares
in its first move, you know. So you'll go VERY quickly through the Third
Square--by railway, I should think--and you'll find yourself in the
Fourth Square in no time. Well, THAT square belongs to Tweedledum and
Tweedledee--the Fifth is mostly water--the Sixth belongs to Humpty
Dumpty--But you make no remark?'

'I--I didn't know I had to make one--just then,' Alice faltered out.

'You SHOULD have said, "It's extremely kind of you to tell me all
this"--however, we'll suppose it said--the Seventh Square is all
forest--however, one of the Knights will show you the way--and in the
Eighth Square we shall be Queens together, and it's all feasting and
fun!' Alice got up and curtseyed, and sat down again.

At the next peg the Queen turned again, and this time she said, 'Speak
in French when you can't think of the English for a thing--turn out your
toes as you walk--and remember who you are!' She did not wait for Alice
to curtsey this time, but walked on quickly to the next peg, where she
turned for a moment to say 'good-bye,' and then hurried on to the last.

How it happened, Alice never knew, but exactly as she came to the last
peg, she was gone. Whether she vanished into the air, or whether she
ran quickly into the wood ('and she CAN run very fast!' thought Alice),
there was no way of guessing, but she was gone, and Alice began to
remember that she was a Pawn, and that it would soon be time for her to
move.




CHAPTER III. Looking-Glass Insects

Of course the first thing to do was to make a grand survey of the
country she was going to travel through. 'It's something very like
learning geography,' thought Alice, as she stood on tiptoe in hopes of
being able to see a little further. 'Principal rivers--there ARE none.
Principal mountains--I'm on the only one, but I don't think it's got any
name. Principal towns--why, what ARE those creatures, making honey down
there? They can't be bees--nobody ever saw bees a mile off, you know--'
and for some time she stood silent, watching one of them that was
bustling about among the flowers, poking its proboscis into them, 'just
as if it was a regular bee,' thought Alice.

However, this was anything but a regular bee: in fact it was an
elephant--as Alice soon found out, though the idea quite took her breath
away at first. 'And what enormous flowers they must be!' was her next
idea. 'Something like cottages with the roofs taken off, and stalks put
to them--and what quantities of honey they must make! I think I'll go
down and--no, I won't JUST yet,' she went on, checking herself just as
she was beginning to run down the hill, and trying to find some excuse
for turning shy so suddenly. 'It'll never do to go down among them
without a good long branch to brush them away--and what fun it'll be
when they ask me how I like my walk. I shall say--"Oh, I like it well
enough--"' (here came the favourite little toss of the head), '"only it
was so dusty and hot, and the elephants did tease so!"'

'I think I'll go down the other way,' she said after a pause: 'and
perhaps I may visit the elephants later on. Besides, I do so want to get
into the Third Square!'

So with this excuse she ran down the hill and jumped over the first of
the six little brooks.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Tickets, please!' said the Guard, putting his head in at the window.
In a moment everybody was holding out a ticket: they were about the same
size as the people, and quite seemed to fill the carriage.

'Now then! Show your ticket, child!' the Guard went on, looking angrily
at Alice. And a great many voices all said together ('like the chorus of
a song,' thought Alice), 'Don't keep him waiting, child! Why, his time
is worth a thousand pounds a minute!'

'I'm afraid I haven't got one,' Alice said in a frightened tone: 'there
wasn't a ticket-office where I came from.' And again the chorus of
voices went on. 'There wasn't room for one where she came from. The land
there is worth a thousand pounds an inch!'

'Don't make excuses,' said the Guard: 'you should have bought one from
the engine-driver.' And once more the chorus of voices went on with 'The
man that drives the engine. Why, the smoke alone is worth a thousand
pounds a puff!'

Alice thought to herself, 'Then there's no use in speaking.' The
voices didn't join in this time, as she hadn't spoke