e, when we were playing just now, you watched just as
if you understood it: and when I said "Check!" you purred! Well, it WAS
a nice check, Kitty, and really I might have won, if it hadn't been for
that nasty Knight, that came wiggling down among my pieces. Kitty, dear,
let's pretend--' And here I wish I could tell you half the things Alice
used to say, beginning with her favourite phrase 'Let's pretend.' She
had had quite a long argument with her sister only the day before--all
because Alice had begun with 'Let's pretend we're kings and queens;' and
her sister, who liked being very exact, had argued that they couldn't,
because there were only two of them, and Alice had been reduced at last
to say, 'Well, YOU can be one of them then, and I'LL be all the rest.'
And once she had really frightened her old nurse by shouting suddenly in
her ear, 'Nurse! Do let's pretend that I'm a hungry hyaena, and you're a
bone.'

But this is taking us away from Alice's speech to the kitten. 'Let's
pretend that you're the Red Queen, Kitty! Do you know, I think if you
sat up and folded your arms, you'd look exactly like her. Now do try,
there's a dear!' And Alice got the Red Queen off the table, and set it
up before the kitten as a model for it to imitate: however, the thing
didn't succeed, principally, Alice said, because the kitten wouldn't
fold its arms properly. So, to punish it, she held it up to the
Looking-glass, that it might see how sulky it was--'and if you're not
good directly,' she added, 'I'll put you through into Looking-glass
House. How would you like THAT?'

'Now, if you'll only attend, Kitty, and not talk so much, I'll tell you
all my ideas about Looking-glass House. First, there's the room you can
see through the glass--that's just the same as our drawing room, only
the things go the other way. I can see all of it when I get upon a
chair--all but the bit behind the fireplace. Oh! I do so wish I could
see THAT bit! I want so much to know whether they've a fire in the
winter: you never CAN tell, you know, unless our fire smokes, and then
smoke comes up in that room too--but that may be only pretence, just to
make it look as if they had a fire. Well then, the books are something
like our books, only the words go the wrong way; I know that, because
I've held up one of our books to the glass, and then they hold up one in
the other room.

'How would you like to live in Looking-glass House, Kitty? I wonder if
they'd give you milk in there? Perhaps Looking-glass milk isn't good
to drink--But oh, Kitty! now we come to the passage. You can just see a
little PEEP of the passage in Looking-glass House, if you leave the door
of our drawing-room wide open: and it's very like our passage as far
as you can see, only you know it may be quite different on beyond.
Oh, Kitty! how nice it would be if we could only get through into
Looking-glass House! I'm sure it's got, oh! such beautiful things in it!
Let's pretend there's a way of getting through into it, somehow, Kitty.
Let's pretend the glass has got all soft like gauze, so that we can get
through. Why, it's turning into a sort of mist now, I declare! It'll be
easy enough to get through--' She was up on the chimney-piece while she
said this, though she hardly knew how she had got there. And certainly
the glass WAS beginning to melt away, just like a bright silvery mist.

In another moment Alice was through the glass, and had jumped lightly
down into the Looking-glass room. The very first thing she did was
to look whether there was a fire in the fireplace, and she was quite
pleased to find that there was a real one, blazing away as brightly as
the one she had left behind. 'So I shall be as warm here as I was in the
old room,' thought Alice: 'warmer, in fact, because there'll be no one
here to scold me away from the fire. Oh, what fun it'll be, when they
see me through the glass in here, and can't get at me!'

Then she began looking about, and noticed that what could be seen from
the old room was quite common and uninteresting, but that all the rest
was as different as possible. For instance, the pictures on the
wall next the fire seemed to be all alive, and the very clock on
the chimney-piece (you know you can only see the back of it in the
Looking-glass) had got the face of a little old man, and grinned at her.

'They don't keep this room so tidy as the other,' Alice thought to
herself, as she noticed several of the chessmen down in the hearth among
the cinders: but in another moment, with a little 'Oh!' of surprise, she
was down on her hands and knees watching them. The chessmen were walking
about, two and two!

'Here are the Red King and the Red Queen,' Alice said (in a whisper, for
fear of frightening them), 'and there are the White King and the White
Queen sitting on the edge of the shovel--and here are two castles
walking arm in arm--I don't think they can hear me,' she went on, as she
put her head closer down, 'and I'm nearly sure they can't see me. I feel
somehow as if I were invisible--'

Here something began squeaking on the table behind Alice, and made her
turn her head just in time t