         (This man, that they used to call "Dunce.")
     "As the Bellman would tell you," he added with pride,
          "I have uttered that sentiment once.

     "'Tis the note of the Jubjub! Keep count, I entreat;
          You will find I have told it you twice.
     'Tis the song of the Jubjub! The proof is complete,
          If only I've stated it thrice."

     The Beaver had counted with scrupulous care,
          Attending to every word:
     But it fairly lost heart, and outgrabe in despair,
          When the third repetition occurred.

     It felt that, in spite of all possible pains,
          It had somehow contrived to lose count,
     And the only thing now was to rack its poor brains
          By reckoning up the amount.

     "Two added to one--if that could but be done,"
          It said, "with one's fingers and thumbs!"
     Recollecting with tears how, in earlier years,
          It had taken no pains with its sums.

     "The thing can be done," said the Butcher, "I think.
          The thing must be done, I am sure.
     The thing shall be done!  Bring me paper and ink,
          The best there is time to procure."

     The Beaver brought paper, portfolio, pens,
          And ink in unfailing supplies:
     While strange creepy creatures came out of their dens,
          And watched them with wondering eyes.

     So engrossed was the Butcher, he heeded them not,
          As he wrote with a pen in each hand,
     And explained all the while in a popular style
          Which the Beaver could well understand.

     "Taking Three as the subject to reason about--
          A convenient number to state--
     We add Seven, and Ten, and then multiply out
          By One Thousand diminished by Eight.

     "The result we proceed to divide, as you see,
          By Nine Hundred and Ninety Two:
     Then subtract Seventeen, and the answer must be
          Exactly and perfectly true.

     "The method employed I would gladly explain,
          While I have it so clear in my head,
     If I had but the time and you had but the brain--
          But much yet remains to be said.

     "In one moment I've seen what has hitherto been
          Enveloped in absolute mystery,
     And without extra charge I will give you at large
          A Lesson in Natural History."

     In his genial way he proceeded to say
          (Forgetting all laws of propriety,
     And that giving instruction, without introduction,
          Would have caused quite a thrill in Society),

     "As to temper the Jubjub's a desperate bird,
          Since it lives in perpetual passion:
     Its taste in costume is entirely absurd--
          It is ages ahead of the fashion:

     "But it knows any friend it has met once before:
          It never will look at a bribe:
     And in charity-meetings it stands at the door,
          And collects--though it does not subscribe.

     "Its' flavour when cooked is more exquisite far
          Than mutton, or oysters, or eggs:
     (Some think it keeps best in an ivory jar,
          And some, in mahogany kegs:)

     "You boil it in sawdust: you salt it in glue:
          You condense it with locusts and tape:
     Still keeping one principal object in view--
          To preserve its symmetrical shape."

     The Butcher would gladly have talked till next day,
          But he felt that the lesson must end,
     And he wept with delight in attempting to say
          He considered the Beaver his friend.

     While the Beaver confessed, with affectionate looks
          More eloquent even than tears,
     It had learned in ten minutes far more than all books
          Would have taught it in seventy years.

     They returned hand-in-hand, and the Bellman, unmanned
          (For a moment) with noble emotion,
     Said "This amply repays all the wearisome days
          We have spent on the billowy ocean!"

     Such friends, as the Beaver and Butcher became,
          Have seldom if ever been known;
     In winter or summer, 'twas always the same--
          You could never meet either alone.

     And when quarrels arose--as one frequently finds
          Quarrels will, spite of every endeavour--
     The song of the Jubjub recurred to their minds,
          And cemented their friendship for ever!



                      Fit the Sixth

                  THE BARRISTER'S DREAM


     They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
          They pursued it with forks and hope;
     They threatened its life with a railway-share;
          They charmed it with smiles and soap.

     But the Barrister, weary of proving in vain
          That the Beaver's lace-making was wrong,
     Fell asleep, and in dreams saw the creature quite plain
          That his fancy had dwelt on so long.

     He dreamed that he stood in a shadowy Court,
          Where the Snark, with a glass in its eye,
     Dressed in gown, bands, and wig, was defending a pig
          On the charge of deserting its sty.

     The Witnesses proved, without error or flaw,
          That the sty was deserted when found:
 