y, not counting trains met at the
terminus itself?" (2) "They went round, as before, each traveller
counting as 'one' the train containing the other traveller. How many did
each meet?"

_Answers._--(1) 19. (2) The easterly traveller met 12; the other 8.

       *       *       *       *       *

The trains one way took 180 minutes, the other way 120. Let us take the
L. C. M., 360, and divide the railway into 360 units. Then one set of
trains went at the rate of 2 units a minute and at intervals of 30
units; the other at the rate of 3 units a minute and at intervals of 45
units. An easterly train starting has 45 units between it and the first
train it will meet: it does 2-5ths of this while the other does 3-5ths,
and thus meets it at the end of 18 units, and so all the way round. A
westerly train starting has 30 units between it and the first train it
will meet: it does 3-5ths of this while the other does 2-5ths, and thus
meets it at the end of 18 units, and so all the way round. Hence if the
railway be divided, by 19 posts, into 20 parts, each containing 18
units, trains meet at every post, and, in (1), each traveller passes 19
posts in going round, and so meets 19 trains. But, in (2), the easterly
traveller only begins to count after traversing 2-5ths of the journey,
_i.e._, on reaching the 8th post, and so counts 12 posts: similarly the
other counts 8. They meet at the end of 2-5ths of 3 hours, or 3-5ths of
2 hours, _i.e._, 72 minutes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Forty-five answers have been received. Of these 12 are beyond the reach
of discussion, as they give no working. I can but enumerate their names.
ARDMORE, E. A., F. A. D., L. D., MATTHEW MATTICKS, M. E. T., POO-POO,
and THE RED QUEEN are all wrong. BETA and ROWENA have got (1) right and
(2) wrong. CHEEKY BOB and NAIRAM give the right answers, but it may
perhaps make the one less cheeky, and induce the other to take a less
inverted view of things, to be informed that, if this had been a
competition for a prize, they would have got no marks. [N.B.--I have
not ventured to put E. A.'s name in full, as she only gave it
provisionally, in case her answer should prove right.]

Of the 33 answers for which the working is given, 10 are wrong; 11
half-wrong and half-right; 3 right, except that they cherish the
delusion that it was _Clara_ who travelled in the easterly train--a
point which the data do not enable us to settle; and 9 wholly right.

The 10 wrong answers are from BO-PEEP, FINANCIER, I. W. T., KATE B., M.
A. H., Q. Y. Z., SEA-GULL, THISTLEDOWN, TOM-QUAD, and an unsigned one.
BO-PEEP rightly says that the easterly traveller met all trains which
started during the 3 hours of her trip, as well as all which started
during the previous 2 hours, _i.e._, all which started at the
commencements of 20 periods of 15 minutes each; and she is right in
striking out the one she met at the moment of starting; but wrong in
striking out the _last_ train, for she did not meet this at the
terminus, but 15 minutes before she got there. She makes the same
mistake in (2). FINANCIER thinks that any train, met for the second
time, is not to be counted. I. W. T. finds, by a process which is not
stated, that the travellers met at the end of 71 minutes and 26-1/2
seconds. KATE B. thinks the trains which are met on starting and on
arriving are _never_ to be counted, even when met elsewhere. Q. Y. Z.
tries a rather complex algebraical solution, and succeeds in finding the
time of meeting correctly: all else is wrong. SEA-GULL seems to think
that, in (1), the easterly train _stood still_ for 3 hours; and says
that, in (2), the travellers met at the end of 71 minutes 40 seconds.
THISTLEDOWN nobly confesses to having tried no calculation, but merely
having drawn a picture of the railway and counted the trains; in (1),
she counts wrong; in (2) she makes them meet in 75 minutes. TOM-QUAD
omits (1): in (2) he makes Clara count the train she met on her arrival.
The unsigned one is also unintelligible; it states that the travellers
go "1-24th more than the total distance to be traversed"! The "Clara"
theory, already referred to, is adopted by 5 of these, viz., BO-PEEP,
FINANCIER, KATE B., TOM-QUAD, and the nameless writer.

The 11 half-right answers are from BOG-OAK, BRIDGET, CASTOR, CHESHIRE
CAT, G. E. B., GUY, MARY, M. A. H., OLD MAID, R. W., and VENDREDI. All
these adopt the "Clara" theory. CASTOR omits (1). VENDREDI gets (1)
right, but in (2) makes the same mistake as BO-PEEP. I notice in your
solution a marvellous proportion-sum:--"300 miles: 2 hours :: one mile:
24 seconds." May I venture to advise your acquiring, as soon as
possible, an utter disbelief in the possibility of a ratio existing
between _miles_ and _hours_? Do not be disheartened by your two friends'
sarcastic remarks on your "roundabout ways." Their short method, of
adding 12 and 8, has the slight disadvantage of bringing the answer
wrong: even a "roundabout" method is better than _that_! M. A. H., in
(2), makes the travellers count "one" _after_ they met, not _when_ they
met. CHESHIRE CAT and OLD MAID get "20" as answ