ly like a riddle with no
answer!' she thought.

'Humpty Dumpty saw it too,' the White Queen went on in a low voice, more
as if she were talking to herself. 'He came to the door with a corkscrew
in his hand--'

'What did he want?' said the Red Queen.

'He said he WOULD come in,' the White Queen went on, 'because he was
looking for a hippopotamus. Now, as it happened, there wasn't such a
thing in the house, that morning.'

'Is there generally?' Alice asked in an astonished tone.

'Well, only on Thursdays,' said the Queen.

'I know what he came for,' said Alice: 'he wanted to punish the fish,
because--'

Here the White Queen began again. 'It was SUCH a thunderstorm, you can't
think!' ('She NEVER could, you know,' said the Red Queen.) 'And part of
the roof came off, and ever so much thunder got in--and it went
rolling round the room in great lumps--and knocking over the tables and
things--till I was so frightened, I couldn't remember my own name!'

Alice thought to herself, 'I never should TRY to remember my name in the
middle of an accident! Where would be the use of it?' but she did not
say this aloud, for fear of hurting the poor Queen's feeling.

'Your Majesty must excuse her,' the Red Queen said to Alice, taking
one of the White Queen's hands in her own, and gently stroking it:
'she means well, but she can't help saying foolish things, as a general
rule.'

The White Queen looked timidly at Alice, who felt she OUGHT to say
something kind, but really couldn't think of anything at the moment.

'She never was really well brought up,' the Red Queen went on: 'but
it's amazing how good-tempered she is! Pat her on the head, and see how
pleased she'll be!' But this was more than Alice had courage to do.

'A little kindness--and putting her hair in papers--would do wonders
with her--'

The White Queen gave a deep sigh, and laid her head on Alice's shoulder.
'I AM so sleepy?' she moaned.

'She's tired, poor thing!' said the Red Queen. 'Smooth her hair--lend
her your nightcap--and sing her a soothing lullaby.'

'I haven't got a nightcap with me,' said Alice, as she tried to obey the
first direction: 'and I don't know any soothing lullabies.'

'I must do it myself, then,' said the Red Queen, and she began:


   'Hush-a-by lady, in Alice's lap!
   Till the feast's ready, we've time for a nap:
   When the feast's over, we'll go to the ball--
   Red Queen, and White Queen, and Alice, and all!


'And now you know the words,' she added, as she put her head down on
Alice's other shoulder, 'just sing it through to ME. I'm getting sleepy,
too.' In another moment both Queens were fast asleep, and snoring loud.

'What AM I to do?' exclaimed Alice, looking about in great perplexity,
as first one round head, and then the other, rolled down from her
shoulder, and lay like a heavy lump in her lap. 'I don't think it EVER
happened before, that any one had to take care of two Queens asleep
at once! No, not in all the History of England--it couldn't, you know,
because there never was more than one Queen at a time. Do wake up, you
heavy things!' she went on in an impatient tone; but there was no answer
but a gentle snoring.

The snoring got more distinct every minute, and sounded more like a
tune: at last she could even make out the words, and she listened so
eagerly that, when the two great heads vanished from her lap, she hardly
missed them.

She was standing before an arched doorway over which were the words
QUEEN ALICE in large letters, and on each side of the arch there was a
bell-handle; one was marked 'Visitors' Bell,' and the other 'Servants'
Bell.'

'I'll wait till the song's over,' thought Alice, 'and then I'll
ring--the--WHICH bell must I ring?' she went on, very much puzzled by
the names. 'I'm not a visitor, and I'm not a servant. There OUGHT to be
one marked "Queen," you know--'

Just then the door opened a little way, and a creature with a long beak
put its head out for a moment and said 'No admittance till the week
after next!' and shut the door again with a bang.

Alice knocked and rang in vain for a long time, but at last, a very old
Frog, who was sitting under a tree, got up and hobbled slowly towards
her: he was dressed in bright yellow, and had enormous boots on.

'What is it, now?' the Frog said in a deep hoarse whisper.

Alice turned round, ready to find fault with anybody. 'Where's the
servant whose business it is to answer the door?' she began angrily.

'Which door?' said the Frog.

Alice almost stamped with irritation at the slow drawl in which he
spoke. 'THIS door, of course!'

The Frog looked at the door with his large dull eyes for a minute:
then he went nearer and rubbed it with his thumb, as if he were trying
whether the paint would come off; then he looked at Alice.

'To answer the door?' he said. 'What's it been asking of?' He was so
hoarse that Alice could scarcely hear him.

'I don't know what you mean,' she said.

'I talks English, doesn't I?' the Frog went on. 'Or are you deaf? What
did it ask you?'

'Nothing!' Alice said impatiently. 'I've been knocking at it!'

'Shouldn't do that--shouldn't do that--' the Frog muttere