hy, it's got branches, I declare! How very odd to
find trees growing here! And actually here's a little brook! Well, this
is the very queerest shop I ever saw!'

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *


So she went on, wondering more and more at every step, as everything
turned into a tree the moment she came up to it, and she quite expected
the egg to do the same.




CHAPTER VI. Humpty Dumpty

However, the egg only got larger and larger, and more and more human:
when she had come within a few yards of it, she saw that it had eyes
and a nose and mouth; and when she had come close to it, she saw clearly
that it was HUMPTY DUMPTY himself. 'It can't be anybody else!' she said
to herself. 'I'm as certain of it, as if his name were written all over
his face.'

It might have been written a hundred times, easily, on that enormous
face. Humpty Dumpty was sitting with his legs crossed, like a Turk, on
the top of a high wall--such a narrow one that Alice quite wondered how
he could keep his balance--and, as his eyes were steadily fixed in the
opposite direction, and he didn't take the least notice of her, she
thought he must be a stuffed figure after all.

'And how exactly like an egg he is!' she said aloud, standing with her
hands ready to catch him, for she was every moment expecting him to
fall.

'It's VERY provoking,' Humpty Dumpty said after a long silence, looking
away from Alice as he spoke, 'to be called an egg--VERY!'

'I said you LOOKED like an egg, Sir,' Alice gently explained. 'And some
eggs are very pretty, you know' she added, hoping to turn her remark
into a sort of a compliment.

'Some people,' said Humpty Dumpty, looking away from her as usual, 'have
no more sense than a baby!'

Alice didn't know what to say to this: it wasn't at all like
conversation, she thought, as he never said anything to HER; in fact,
his last remark was evidently addressed to a tree--so she stood and
softly repeated to herself:--


     'Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall:
     Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.
     All the King's horses and all the King's men
     Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty in his place again.'


'That last line is much too long for the poetry,' she added, almost out
loud, forgetting that Humpty Dumpty would hear her.

'Don't stand there chattering to yourself like that,' Humpty Dumpty
said, looking at her for the first time, 'but tell me your name and your
business.'

'My NAME is Alice, but--'

'It's a stupid enough name!' Humpty Dumpty interrupted impatiently.
'What does it mean?'

'MUST a name mean something?' Alice asked doubtfully.

'Of course it must,' Humpty Dumpty said with a short laugh: 'MY name
means the shape I am--and a good handsome shape it is, too. With a name
like yours, you might be any shape, almost.'

'Why do you sit out here all alone?' said Alice, not wishing to begin an
argument.

'Why, because there's nobody with me!' cried Humpty Dumpty. 'Did you
think I didn't know the answer to THAT? Ask another.'

'Don't you think you'd be safer down on the ground?' Alice went on, not
with any idea of making another riddle, but simply in her good-natured
anxiety for the queer creature. 'That wall is so VERY narrow!'

'What tremendously easy riddles you ask!' Humpty Dumpty growled out. 'Of
course I don't think so! Why, if ever I DID fall off--which there's no
chance of--but IF I did--' Here he pursed up his lips and looked so solemn
and grand that Alice could hardly help laughing. 'IF I did fall,' he
went on, 'THE KING HAS PROMISED ME--ah, you may turn pale, if you like!
You didn't think I was going to say that, did you? THE KING HAS PROMISED ME--
WITH HIS VERY OWN MOUTH--to--to--'

'To send all his horses and all his men,' Alice interrupted, rather
unwisely.

'Now I declare that's too bad!' Humpty Dumpty cried, breaking into a
sudden passion. 'You've been listening at doors--and behind trees--and
down chimneys--or you couldn't have known it!'

'I haven't, indeed!' Alice said very gently. 'It's in a book.'

'Ah, well! They may write such things in a BOOK,' Humpty Dumpty said in
a calmer tone. 'That's what you call a History of England, that is.
Now, take a good look at me! I'm one that has spoken to a King, _I_ am:
mayhap you'll never see such another: and to show you I'm not proud, you
may shake hands with me!' And he grinned almost from ear to ear, as he
leant forwards (and as nearly as possible fell off the wall in doing so)
and offered Alice his hand. She watched him a little anxiously as she
took it. 'If he smiled much more, the ends of his mouth might meet
behind,' she thought: 'and then I don't know what would happen to his
head! I'm afraid it would come off!'

'Yes, all his horses and all his men,' Humpty Dumpty went on. 'They'd
pick me up again in a minute, THEY would! However, this conversation is
going on a little too fast: let's go back to the last remark but one.'

'I'm afraid I can't quite remember it,' Alice said very politely.

'In that case we start fresh,' said Humpty Dumpty, 'and it's my turn
to choose a subject--' ('He talks about it just as if