d. 'Vexes it,
you know.' Then he went up and gave the door a kick with one of his
great feet. 'You let IT alone,' he panted out, as he hobbled back to his
tree, 'and it'll let YOU alone, you know.'

At this moment the door was flung open, and a shrill voice was heard
singing:


   'To the Looking-Glass world it was Alice that said,
   "I've a sceptre in hand, I've a crown on my head;
   Let the Looking-Glass creatures, whatever they be,
   Come and dine with the Red Queen, the White Queen, and me."'


And hundreds of voices joined in the chorus:


  'Then fill up the glasses as quick as you can,
  And sprinkle the table with buttons and bran:
  Put cats in the coffee, and mice in the tea--
  And welcome Queen Alice with thirty-times-three!'


Then followed a confused noise of cheering, and Alice thought to
herself, 'Thirty times three makes ninety. I wonder if any one's
counting?' In a minute there was silence again, and the same shrill
voice sang another verse;


  '"O Looking-Glass creatures," quoth Alice, "draw near!
  'Tis an honour to see me, a favour to hear:
  'Tis a privilege high to have dinner and tea
  Along with the Red Queen, the White Queen, and me!"'


Then came the chorus again:--


  'Then fill up the glasses with treacle and ink,
  Or anything else that is pleasant to drink:
  Mix sand with the cider, and wool with the wine--
  And welcome Queen Alice with ninety-times-nine!'


'Ninety times nine!' Alice repeated in despair, 'Oh, that'll never
be done! I'd better go in at once--' and there was a dead silence the
moment she appeared.

Alice glanced nervously along the table, as she walked up the large
hall, and noticed that there were about fifty guests, of all kinds: some
were animals, some birds, and there were even a few flowers among them.
'I'm glad they've come without waiting to be asked,' she thought: 'I
should never have known who were the right people to invite!'

There were three chairs at the head of the table; the Red and White
Queens had already taken two of them, but the middle one was empty.
Alice sat down in it, rather uncomfortable in the silence, and longing
for some one to speak.

At last the Red Queen began. 'You've missed the soup and fish,' she
said. 'Put on the joint!' And the waiters set a leg of mutton before
Alice, who looked at it rather anxiously, as she had never had to carve
a joint before.

'You look a little shy; let me introduce you to that leg of mutton,'
said the Red Queen. 'Alice--Mutton; Mutton--Alice.' The leg of mutton
got up in the dish and made a little bow to Alice; and Alice returned
the bow, not knowing whether to be frightened or amused.

'May I give you a slice?' she said, taking up the knife and fork, and
looking from one Queen to the other.

'Certainly not,' the Red Queen said, very decidedly: 'it isn't etiquette
to cut any one you've been introduced to. Remove the joint!' And the
waiters carried it off, and brought a large plum-pudding in its place.

'I won't be introduced to the pudding, please,' Alice said rather
hastily, 'or we shall get no dinner at all. May I give you some?'

But the Red Queen looked sulky, and growled 'Pudding--Alice;
Alice--Pudding. Remove the pudding!' and the waiters took it away so
quickly that Alice couldn't return its bow.

However, she didn't see why the Red Queen should be the only one to give
orders, so, as an experiment, she called out 'Waiter! Bring back the
pudding!' and there it was again in a moment like a conjuring-trick. It
was so large that she couldn't help feeling a LITTLE shy with it, as she
had been with the mutton; however, she conquered her shyness by a great
effort and cut a slice and handed it to the Red Queen.

'What impertinence!' said the Pudding. 'I wonder how you'd like it, if I
were to cut a slice out of YOU, you creature!'

It spoke in a thick, suety sort of voice, and Alice hadn't a word to say
in reply: she could only sit and look at it and gasp.

'Make a remark,' said the Red Queen: 'it's ridiculous to leave all the
conversation to the pudding!'

'Do you know, I've had such a quantity of poetry repeated to me to-day,'
Alice began, a little frightened at finding that, the moment she opened
her lips, there was dead silence, and all eyes were fixed upon her; 'and
it's a very curious thing, I think--every poem was about fishes in some
way. Do you know why they're so fond of fishes, all about here?'

She spoke to the Red Queen, whose answer was a little wide of the mark.
'As to fishes,' she said, very slowly and solemnly, putting her mouth
close to Alice's ear, 'her White Majesty knows a lovely riddle--all in
poetry--all about fishes. Shall she repeat it?'

'Her Red Majesty's very kind to mention it,' the White Queen murmured
into Alice's other ear, in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon. 'It
would be SUCH a treat! May I?'

'Please do,' Alice said very politely.

The White Queen laughed with delight, and stroked Alice's cheek. Then
she began:


    '"First, the fish must be caught."
  That is easy: a baby, I think, could have caught it.
    "Next, the fish must be bought."
  That is easy: a penny, I think, w