t with
great curiosity.

'I see you're admiring my little box.' the Knight said in a friendly
tone. 'It's my own invention--to keep clothes and sandwiches in. You see
I carry it upside-down, so that the rain can't get in.'

'But the things can get OUT,' Alice gently remarked. 'Do you know the
lid's open?'

'I didn't know it,' the Knight said, a shade of vexation passing over
his face. 'Then all the things must have fallen out! And the box is no
use without them.' He unfastened it as he spoke, and was just going to
throw it into the bushes, when a sudden thought seemed to strike him,
and he hung it carefully on a tree. 'Can you guess why I did that?' he
said to Alice.

Alice shook her head.

'In hopes some bees may make a nest in it--then I should get the honey.'

'But you've got a bee-hive--or something like one--fastened to the
saddle,' said Alice.

'Yes, it's a very good bee-hive,' the Knight said in a discontented
tone, 'one of the best kind. But not a single bee has come near it yet.
And the other thing is a mouse-trap. I suppose the mice keep the bees
out--or the bees keep the mice out, I don't know which.'

'I was wondering what the mouse-trap was for,' said Alice. 'It isn't
very likely there would be any mice on the horse's back.'

'Not very likely, perhaps,' said the Knight: 'but if they DO come, I
don't choose to have them running all about.'

'You see,' he went on after a pause, 'it's as well to be provided for
EVERYTHING. That's the reason the horse has all those anklets round his
feet.'

'But what are they for?' Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.

'To guard against the bites of sharks,' the Knight replied. 'It's an
invention of my own. And now help me on. I'll go with you to the end of
the wood--What's the dish for?'

'It's meant for plum-cake,' said Alice.

'We'd better take it with us,' the Knight said. 'It'll come in handy if
we find any plum-cake. Help me to get it into this bag.'

This took a very long time to manage, though Alice held the bag open
very carefully, because the Knight was so VERY awkward in putting in
the dish: the first two or three times that he tried he fell in himself
instead. 'It's rather a tight fit, you see,' he said, as they got it in
a last; 'There are so many candlesticks in the bag.' And he hung it
to the saddle, which was already loaded with bunches of carrots, and
fire-irons, and many other things.

'I hope you've got your hair well fastened on?' he continued, as they
set off.

'Only in the usual way,' Alice said, smiling.

'That's hardly enough,' he said, anxiously. 'You see the wind is so VERY
strong here. It's as strong as soup.'

'Have you invented a plan for keeping the hair from being blown off?'
Alice enquired.

'Not yet,' said the Knight. 'But I've got a plan for keeping it from
FALLING off.'

'I should like to hear it, very much.'

'First you take an upright stick,' said the Knight. 'Then you make your
hair creep up it, like a fruit-tree. Now the reason hair falls off is
because it hangs DOWN--things never fall UPWARDS, you know. It's a plan
of my own invention. You may try it if you like.'

It didn't sound a comfortable plan, Alice thought, and for a few minutes
she walked on in silence, puzzling over the idea, and every now and then
stopping to help the poor Knight, who certainly was NOT a good rider.

Whenever the horse stopped (which it did very often), he fell off in
front; and whenever it went on again (which it generally did rather
suddenly), he fell off behind. Otherwise he kept on pretty well, except
that he had a habit of now and then falling off sideways; and as he
generally did this on the side on which Alice was walking, she soon
found that it was the best plan not to walk QUITE close to the horse.

'I'm afraid you've not had much practice in riding,' she ventured to
say, as she was helping him up from his fifth tumble.

The Knight looked very much surprised, and a little offended at the
remark. 'What makes you say that?' he asked, as he scrambled back into
the saddle, keeping hold of Alice's hair with one hand, to save himself
from falling over on the other side.

'Because people don't fall off quite so often, when they've had much
practice.'

'I've had plenty of practice,' the Knight said very gravely: 'plenty of
practice!'

Alice could think of nothing better to say than 'Indeed?' but she said
it as heartily as she could. They went on a little way in silence after
this, the Knight with his eyes shut, muttering to himself, and Alice
watching anxiously for the next tumble.

'The great art of riding,' the Knight suddenly began in a loud voice,
waving his right arm as he spoke, 'is to keep--' Here the sentence ended
as suddenly as it had begun, as the Knight fell heavily on the top of
his head exactly in the path where Alice was walking. She was quite
frightened this time, and said in an anxious tone, as she picked him up,
'I hope no bones are broken?'

'None to speak of,' the Knight said, as if he didn't mind breaking two
or three of them. 'The great art of riding, as I was saying, is--to keep
your balance properly. Like this, you know--'

He let go th