

                    THE HUNTING OF THE SNARK

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 1.2




                    THE HUNTING OF THE SNARK
                     an Agony in Eight Fits
                               by
                          Lewis Carroll



PREFACE

If--and the thing is wildly possible--the charge of writing nonsense
were ever brought against the author of this brief but instructive
poem, it would be based, I feel convinced, on the line (in p.4)

          "Then the bowsprit got mixed with the rudder sometimes."

In view of this painful possibility, I will not (as I might) appeal
indignantly to my other writings as a proof that I am incapable of
such a deed: I will not (as I might) point to the strong moral purpose
of this poem itself, to the arithmetical principles so cautiously
inculcated in it, or to its noble teachings in Natural History--I will
take the more prosaic course of simply explaining how it happened.

The Bellman, who was almost morbidly sensitive about appearances, used
to have the bowsprit unshipped once or twice a week to be revarnished,
and it more than once happened, when the time came for replacing it,
that no one on board could remember which end of the ship it belonged
to. They knew it was not of the slightest use to appeal to the Bellman
about it--he would only refer to his Naval Code, and read out in
pathetic tones Admiralty Instructions which none of them had ever been
able to understand--so it generally ended in its being fastened on,
anyhow, across the rudder. The helmsman used to stand by with tears in
his eyes; he knew it was all wrong, but alas!  Rule 42 of the Code, "No
one shall speak to the Man at the Helm," had been completed by the
Bellman himself with the words "and the Man at the Helm shall speak to
no one."  So remonstrance was impossible, and no steering could be done
till the next varnishing day.  During these bewildering intervals the
ship usually sailed backwards.

As this poem is to some extent connected with the lay of the Jabberwock,
let me take this opportunity of answering a question that has often been
asked me, how to pronounce "slithy toves."  The "i" in "slithy" is long,
as in "writhe"; and "toves" is pronounced so as to rhyme with "groves."
Again, the first "o" in "borogoves" is pronounced like the "o" in
"borrow."  I have heard people try to give it the sound of the "o" in
"worry".  Such is Human Perversity.

This also seems a fitting occasion to notice the other hard works in
that poem.  Humpty-Dumpty's theory, of two meanings packed into one word
like a portmanteau, seems to me the right explanation for all.

For instance, take the two words "fuming" and "furious."  Make up your
mind that you will say both words, but leave it unsettled which you will
first.  Now open your mouth and speak.  If your thoughts incline
ever so little towards "fuming," you will say "fuming-furious;" if they
turn, by even a hair's breadth, towards "furious," you will say
"furious-fuming;" but if you have the rarest of gifts, a perfectly
balanced mind, you will say "frumious."

Supposing that, when Pistol uttered the well-known words--

          "Under which king, Bezonian?  Speak or die!"

Justice Shallow had felt certain that it was either William or Richard,
but had not been able to settle which, so that he could not possibly say
either name before the other, can it be doubted that, rather than die,
he would have gasped out "Rilchiam!"



                 Fit the First

                  THE LANDING


     "Just the place for a Snark!" the Bellman cried,
          As he landed his crew with care;
     Supporting each man on the top of the tide
          By a finger entwined in his hair.

     "Just the place for a Snark!  I have said it twice:
          That alone should encourage the crew.
     Just the place for a Snark!  I have said it thrice:
          What I tell you three times is true."

     The crew was complete: it included a Boots--
          A maker of Bonnets and Hoods--
     A Barrister, brought to arrange their disputes--
          And a Broker, to value their goods.

     A Billiard-marker, whose skill was immense,
          Might perhaps have won more than his share--
     But a Banker, engaged at enormous expense,
          Had the whole of their cash in his care.

     There was also a Beaver, that paced on the deck,
          Or would sit making lace in the bow:
     And had often (the Bellman said) saved them from wreck,
          Though none of the sailors knew how.

     There was one who was famed for the number of things
          He forgot when he entered the ship:
     His umbrella, his watch, all his jewels and rings,
          And the clothes he had bought for the trip.

     He had forty-two boxes, all carefully packed,
          With his name painted clearly on each:
     But, since he omitted to mention the fact,
          They were all left behind on the beach.

     The loss of his clothes hardly mattered, because
          He had seven coats on when he came,
     With three pairs of boots-