e who name
them, I suppose. If not, why do things have names at all?'

'I can't say,' the Gnat replied. 'Further on, in the wood down there,
they've got no names--however, go on with your list of insects: you're
wasting time.'

'Well, there's the Horse-fly,' Alice began, counting off the names on
her fingers.

'All right,' said the Gnat: 'half way up that bush, you'll see a
Rocking-horse-fly, if you look. It's made entirely of wood, and gets
about by swinging itself from branch to branch.'

'What does it live on?' Alice asked, with great curiosity.

'Sap and sawdust,' said the Gnat. 'Go on with the list.'

Alice looked up at the Rocking-horse-fly with great interest, and made
up her mind that it must have been just repainted, it looked so bright
and sticky; and then she went on.

'And there's the Dragon-fly.'

'Look on the branch above your head,' said the Gnat, 'and there you'll
find a snap-dragon-fly. Its body is made of plum-pudding, its wings of
holly-leaves, and its head is a raisin burning in brandy.'

'And what does it live on?'

'Frumenty and mince pie,' the Gnat replied; 'and it makes its nest in a
Christmas box.'

'And then there's the Butterfly,' Alice went on, after she had taken
a good look at the insect with its head on fire, and had thought to
herself, 'I wonder if that's the reason insects are so fond of flying
into candles--because they want to turn into Snap-dragon-flies!'

'Crawling at your feet,' said the Gnat (Alice drew her feet back in
some alarm), 'you may observe a Bread-and-Butterfly. Its wings are thin
slices of Bread-and-butter, its body is a crust, and its head is a lump
of sugar.'

'And what does IT live on?'

'Weak tea with cream in it.'

A new difficulty came into Alice's head. 'Supposing it couldn't find
any?' she suggested.

'Then it would die, of course.'

'But that must happen very often,' Alice remarked thoughtfully.

'It always happens,' said the Gnat.

After this, Alice was silent for a minute or two, pondering. The Gnat
amused itself meanwhile by humming round and round her head: at last
it settled again and remarked, 'I suppose you don't want to lose your
name?'

'No, indeed,' Alice said, a little anxiously.

'And yet I don't know,' the Gnat went on in a careless tone: 'only think
how convenient it would be if you could manage to go home without it!
For instance, if the governess wanted to call you to your lessons, she
would call out "come here--," and there she would have to leave off,
because there wouldn't be any name for her to call, and of course you
wouldn't have to go, you know.'

'That would never do, I'm sure,' said Alice: 'the governess would never
think of excusing me lessons for that. If she couldn't remember my name,
she'd call me "Miss!" as the servants do.'

'Well, if she said "Miss," and didn't say anything more,' the Gnat
remarked, 'of course you'd miss your lessons. That's a joke. I wish YOU
had made it.'

'Why do you wish _I_ had made it?' Alice asked. 'It's a very bad one.'

But the Gnat only sighed deeply, while two large tears came rolling down
its cheeks.

'You shouldn't make jokes,' Alice said, 'if it makes you so unhappy.'

Then came another of those melancholy little sighs, and this time the
poor Gnat really seemed to have sighed itself away, for, when Alice
looked up, there was nothing whatever to be seen on the twig, and, as
she was getting quite chilly with sitting still so long, she got up and
walked on.

She very soon came to an open field, with a wood on the other side of
it: it looked much darker than the last wood, and Alice felt a LITTLE
timid about going into it. However, on second thoughts, she made up her
mind to go on: 'for I certainly won't go BACK,' she thought to herself,
and this was the only way to the Eighth Square.

'This must be the wood,' she said thoughtfully to herself, 'where
things have no names. I wonder what'll become of MY name when I go in?
I shouldn't like to lose it at all--because they'd have to give me
another, and it would be almost certain to be an ugly one. But then
the fun would be trying to find the creature that had got my old
name! That's just like the advertisements, you know, when people lose
dogs--"ANSWERS TO THE NAME OF 'DASH:' HAD ON A BRASS COLLAR"--just fancy
calling everything you met "Alice," till one of them answered! Only they
wouldn't answer at all, if they were wise.'

She was rambling on in this way when she reached the wood: it looked
very cool and shady. 'Well, at any rate it's a great comfort,' she
said as she stepped under the trees, 'after being so hot, to get into
the--into WHAT?' she went on, rather surprised at not being able to
think of the word. 'I mean to get under the--under the--under THIS, you
know!' putting her hand on the trunk of the tree. 'What DOES it call
itself, I wonder? I do believe it's got no name--why, to be sure it
hasn't!'

She stood silent for a minute, thinking: then she suddenly began again.
'Then it really HAS happened, after all! And now, who am I? I WILL
remember, if I can! I'm determined to do it!' But being determined
didn't help much, and all she could say, after a gre