 it was a game!'
thought Alice.) 'So here's a question for you. How old did you say you
were?'

Alice made a short calculation, and said 'Seven years and six months.'

'Wrong!' Humpty Dumpty exclaimed triumphantly. 'You never said a word
like it!'

'I though you meant "How old ARE you?"' Alice explained.

'If I'd meant that, I'd have said it,' said Humpty Dumpty.

Alice didn't want to begin another argument, so she said nothing.

'Seven years and six months!' Humpty Dumpty repeated thoughtfully. 'An
uncomfortable sort of age. Now if you'd asked MY advice, I'd have said
"Leave off at seven"--but it's too late now.'

'I never ask advice about growing,' Alice said indignantly.

'Too proud?' the other inquired.

Alice felt even more indignant at this suggestion. 'I mean,' she said,
'that one can't help growing older.'

'ONE can't, perhaps,' said Humpty Dumpty, 'but TWO can. With proper
assistance, you might have left off at seven.'

'What a beautiful belt you've got on!' Alice suddenly remarked.

(They had had quite enough of the subject of age, she thought: and if
they really were to take turns in choosing subjects, it was her turn
now.) 'At least,' she corrected herself on second thoughts, 'a beautiful
cravat, I should have said--no, a belt, I mean--I beg your pardon!' she
added in dismay, for Humpty Dumpty looked thoroughly offended, and she
began to wish she hadn't chosen that subject. 'If I only knew,' she
thought to herself, 'which was neck and which was waist!'

Evidently Humpty Dumpty was very angry, though he said nothing for a
minute or two. When he DID speak again, it was in a deep growl.

'It is a--MOST--PROVOKING--thing,' he said at last, 'when a person
doesn't know a cravat from a belt!'

'I know it's very ignorant of me,' Alice said, in so humble a tone that
Humpty Dumpty relented.

'It's a cravat, child, and a beautiful one, as you say. It's a present
from the White King and Queen. There now!'

'Is it really?' said Alice, quite pleased to find that she HAD chosen a
good subject, after all.

'They gave it me,' Humpty Dumpty continued thoughtfully, as he crossed
one knee over the other and clasped his hands round it, 'they gave it
me--for an un-birthday present.'

'I beg your pardon?' Alice said with a puzzled air.

'I'm not offended,' said Humpty Dumpty.

'I mean, what IS an un-birthday present?'

'A present given when it isn't your birthday, of course.'

Alice considered a little. 'I like birthday presents best,' she said at
last.

'You don't know what you're talking about!' cried Humpty Dumpty. 'How
many days are there in a year?'

'Three hundred and sixty-five,' said Alice.

'And how many birthdays have you?'

'One.'

'And if you take one from three hundred and sixty-five, what remains?'

'Three hundred and sixty-four, of course.'

Humpty Dumpty looked doubtful. 'I'd rather see that done on paper,' he
said.

Alice couldn't help smiling as she took out her memorandum-book, and
worked the sum for him:


               365
                1
               ____

               364
               ___

Humpty Dumpty took the book, and looked at it carefully. 'That seems to
be done right--' he began.

'You're holding it upside down!' Alice interrupted.

'To be sure I was!' Humpty Dumpty said gaily, as she turned it round for
him. 'I thought it looked a little queer. As I was saying, that SEEMS
to be done right--though I haven't time to look it over thoroughly just
now--and that shows that there are three hundred and sixty-four days
when you might get un-birthday presents--'

'Certainly,' said Alice.

'And only ONE for birthday presents, you know. There's glory for you!'

'I don't know what you mean by "glory,"' Alice said.

Humpty Dumpty smiled contemptuously. 'Of course you don't--till I tell
you. I meant "there's a nice knock-down argument for you!"'

'But "glory" doesn't mean "a nice knock-down argument,"' Alice objected.

'When _I_ use a word,' Humpty Dumpty said in rather a scornful tone, 'it
means just what I choose it to mean--neither more nor less.'

'The question is,' said Alice, 'whether you CAN make words mean so many
different things.'

'The question is,' said Humpty Dumpty, 'which is to be master--that's
all.'

Alice was too much puzzled to say anything, so after a minute Humpty
Dumpty began again. 'They've a temper, some of them--particularly verbs,
they're the proudest--adjectives you can do anything with, but not
verbs--however, _I_ can manage the whole lot of them! Impenetrability!
That's what _I_ say!'

'Would you tell me, please,' said Alice 'what that means?'

'Now you talk like a reasonable child,' said Humpty Dumpty, looking very
much pleased. 'I meant by "impenetrability" that we've had enough of
that subject, and it would be just as well if you'd mention what you
mean to do next, as I suppose you don't mean to stop here all the rest
of your life.'

'That's a great deal to make one word mean,' Alice said in a thoughtful
tone.

'When I make a word do a lot of work like that,' said Humpty Dumpty, 'I
always pay it extra.'

'Oh!' said Alice. She was too much puzzled to make any other remark.

'Ah, y