oticed, or make your reply distinctly less severe; and if he makes a
friendly remark, tending towards making up the little difference that has
arisen between you, let your reply be distinctly _more_ friendly.

       *       *       *       *       *

'If, in picking a quarrel, each party declined to go more than
_three-eighths_ of the way, and if in making friends, each was ready to go
_five-eighths_ of the way--why, there would be more reconciliations than
quarrels! Which is like the Irishman's remonstrance to his gad-about
daughter: "Shure, you're _always_ goin' out! You go out three times for
_wanst_ that you come in!"'

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rule 6._--'Don't try to get the last word.... (N.B.--If you are a
gentleman and your friend a lady, this rule is superfluous: _You won't get
the last word!_)'

       *       *       *       *       *

_Let the last word to-day be part of another rule, which gives a glimpse
into that gentle heart:_

'When you have written a letter that you feel may possibly irritate your
friend, however necessary you may have felt it to so express yourself,
_put it aside till the next day_. Then read it over again, and fancy it
addressed to yourself. This will often lead to your writing it all over
again, taking out a lot of the vinegar and pepper and putting in honey
instead, and thus making a _much_ more palatable dish of it!'

  'Quis desiderio sit pudor aut modus
  Tam cari capitis?'

W. H. D.

_November 1907._




FEEDING THE MIND


Breakfast, dinner, tea; in extreme cases, breakfast, luncheon, dinner,
tea, supper, and a glass of something hot at bedtime. What care we take
about feeding the lucky body! Which of us does as much for his mind? And
what causes the difference? Is the body so much the more important of the
two?

By no means: but life depends on the body being fed, whereas we can
continue to exist as animals (scarcely as men) though the mind be
utterly starved and neglected. Therefore Nature provides that, in case of
serious neglect of the body, such terrible consequences of discomfort and
pain shall ensue, as will soon bring us back to a sense of our duty: and
some of the functions necessary to life she does for us altogether,
leaving us no choice in the matter. It would fare but ill with many of us
if we were left to superintend our own digestion and circulation. 'Bless
me!' one would cry, 'I forgot to wind up my heart this morning! To think
that it has been standing still for the last three hours!' 'I can't walk
with you this afternoon,' a friend would say, 'as I have no less than
eleven dinners to digest. I had to let them stand over from last week,
being so busy, and my doctor says he will not answer for the consequences
if I wait any longer!'

Well, it is, I say, for us that the consequences of neglecting the body
can be clearly seen and felt; and it might be well for some if the mind
were equally visible and tangible--if we could take it, say, to the
doctor, and have its pulse felt.

'Why, what have you been doing with this mind lately? How have you fed it?
It looks pale, and the pulse is very slow.'

'Well, doctor, it has not had much regular food lately. I gave it a lot of
sugar-plums yesterday.'

'Sugar-plums! What kind?'

'Well, they were a parcel of conundrums, sir.'

'Ah, I thought so. Now just mind this: if you go on playing tricks like
that, you'll spoil all its teeth, and get laid up with mental indigestion.
You must have nothing but the plainest reading for the next few days. Take
care now! No novels on any account!'

       *       *       *       *       *

Considering the amount of painful experience many of us have had in
feeding and dosing the body, it would, I think, be quite worth our while
to try and translate some of the rules into corresponding ones for the
mind.

First, then, we should set ourselves to provide for our mind its _proper
kind_ of food. We very soon learn what will, and what will not, agree with
the body, and find little difficulty in refusing a piece of the tempting
pudding or pie which is associated in our memory with that terrible attack
of indigestion, and whose very name irresistibly recalls rhubarb and
magnesia; but it takes a great many lessons to convince us how
indigestible some of our favourite lines of reading are, and again and
again we make a meal of the unwholesome novel, sure to be followed by its
usual train of low spirits, unwillingness to work, weariness of
existence--in fact, by mental nightmare.

Then we should be careful to provide this wholesome food in _proper
amount_. Mental gluttony, or over-reading, is a dangerous propensity,
tending to weakness of digestive power, and in some cases to loss of
appetite: we know that bread is a good and wholesome food, but who would
like to try the experiment of eating two or three loaves at a sitting?

I have heard a physician telling his patient--whose complaint was merely
gluttony and want of exercise--that 'the earliest symptom of
hyper-nutrition is a deposition of adipose tissue,' and no doubt the fine
long words greatly consoled the poor man under his increasi