aunt's less romantic reply. "Some of them have lost an arm in their
country's service, some a leg, some an ear, some an eye----"

"And some, perhaps, _all_!" Clara murmured dreamily, as they passed the
long rows of weather-beaten heroes basking in the sun. "Did you notice
that very old one, with a red face, who was drawing a map in the dust
with his wooden leg, and all the others watching? I _think_ it was a
plan of a battle----"

"The battle of Trafalgar, no doubt," her aunt interrupted, briskly.

"Hardly that, I think," Clara ventured to say. "You see, in that case,
he couldn't well be alive----"

"Couldn't well be alive!" the old lady contemptuously repeated. "He's as
lively as you and me put together! Why, if drawing a map in the
dust--with one's wooden leg--doesn't prove one to be alive, perhaps
you'll kindly mention what _does_ prove it!"

Clara did not see her way out of it. Logic had never been her _forte_.

"To return to the arithmetic," Mad Mathesis resumed--the eccentric old
lady never let slip an opportunity of driving her niece into a
calculation--"what percentage do you suppose must have lost all four--a
leg, an arm, an eye, and an ear?"

"How _can_ I tell?" gasped the terrified girl. She knew well what was
coming.

"You can't, of course, without _data_," her aunt replied: "but I'm just
going to give you----"

"Give her a Chelsea bun, Miss! That's what most young ladies likes
best!" The voice was rich and musical, and the speaker dexterously
whipped back the snowy cloth that covered his basket, and disclosed a
tempting array of the familiar square buns, joined together in rows,
richly egged and browned, and glistening in the sun.

"No, sir! I shall give her nothing so indigestible! Be off!" The old
lady waved her parasol threateningly: but nothing seemed to disturb the
good-humour of the jolly old man, who marched on, chanting his melodious
refrain:--

[Music: Chel-sea buns! Chel-sea buns hot! Chel-sea buns!

Pi-ping hot! Chel-sea buns hot! Chel-sea buns!]

"Far too indigestible, my love!" said the old lady. "Percentages will
agree with you ever so much better!"

Clara sighed, and there was a hungry look in her eyes as she watched the
basket lessening in the distance: but she meekly listened to the
relentless old lady, who at once proceeded to count off the _data_ on
her fingers.

"Say that 70 per cent. have lost an eye--75 per cent. an ear--80 per
cent. an arm--85 per cent. a leg--that'll do it beautifully. Now, my
dear, what percentage, _at least_, must have lost all four?"

No more conversation occurred--unless a smothered exclamation of "Piping
hot!" which escaped from Clara's lips as the basket vanished round a
corner could be counted as such--until they reached the old Chelsea
mansion, where Clara's father was then staying, with his three sons and
their old tutor.

Balbus, Lambert, and Hugh had entered the house only a few minutes
before them. They had been out walking, and Hugh had been propounding a
difficulty which had reduced Lambert to the depths of gloom, and had
even puzzled Balbus.

"It changes from Wednesday to Thursday at midnight, doesn't it?" Hugh
had begun.

"Sometimes," said Balbus, cautiously.

"Always," said Lambert, decisively.

"_Sometimes_," Balbus gently insisted. "Six midnights out of seven, it
changes to some other name."

"I meant, of course," Hugh corrected himself, "when it _does_ change
from Wednesday to Thursday, it does it at midnight--and _only_ at
midnight."

"Surely," said Balbus. Lambert was silent.

"Well, now, suppose it's midnight here in Chelsea. Then it's Wednesday
_west_ of Chelsea (say in Ireland or America) where midnight hasn't
arrived yet: and it's Thursday _east_ of Chelsea (say in Germany or
Russia) where midnight has just passed by?"

"Surely," Balbus said again. Even Lambert nodded this time.

"But it isn't midnight, anywhere else; so it can't be changing from one
day to another anywhere else. And yet, if Ireland and America and so on
call it Wednesday, and Germany and Russia and so on call it Thursday,
there _must_ be some place--not Chelsea--that has different days on the
two sides of it. And the worst of it is, the people _there_ get their
days in the wrong order: they've got Wednesday _east_ of them, and
Thursday _west_--just as if their day had changed from Thursday to
Wednesday!"

"I've heard that puzzle before!" cried Lambert. "And I'll tell you the
explanation. When a ship goes round the world from east to west, we
know that it loses a day in its reckoning: so that when it gets home,
and calls its day Wednesday, it finds people here calling it Thursday,
because we've had one more midnight than the ship has had. And when you
go the other way round you gain a day."

"I know all that," said Hugh, in reply to this not very lucid
explanation: "but it doesn't help me, because the ship hasn't proper
days. One way round, you get more than twenty-four hours to the day, and
the other way you get less: so of course the names get wrong: but people
that live on in one place always get twenty-four hours to the day."

"I suppose there _is_ such a place," Balbus said,