ord
ever used by confectioners? I fancied "What is the next article, Ma'am?"
was limited to linendrapers. TWO SISTERS first assume that biscuits are
4 a penny, and then that they are 2 a penny, adding that "the answer
will of course be the same in both cases." It is a dreamy remark,
making one feel something like Macbeth grasping at the spectral dagger.
"Is this a statement that I see before me?" If you were to say "we both
walked the same way this morning," and _I_ were to say "_one_ of you
walked the same way, but the other didn't," which of the three would be
the most hopelessly confused? TURTLE PYATE (what _is_ a Turtle Pyate,
please?) and OLD CROW, who send a joint answer, and Y. Y., adopt the
same method. Y. Y. gets the equation _s_ + 3_b_ = 3: and then says "this
sum must be apportioned in one of the three following ways." It _may_
be, I grant you: but Y. Y. do you say "must"? I fear it is _possible_
for Y. Y. to be _two_ Y's. The other two conspirators are less positive:
they say it "can" be so divided: but they add "either of the three
prices being right"! This is bad grammar and bad arithmetic at once, oh
mysterious birds!

Of those who win honours, THE SHETLAND SNARK must have the 3rd class all
to himself. He has only answered half the question, viz. the amount of
Clara's luncheon: the two little old ladies he pitilessly leaves in the
midst of their "difficulty." I beg to assure him (with thanks for his
friendly remarks) that entrance-fees and subscriptions are things
unknown in that most economical of clubs, "The Knot-Untiers."

The authors of the 26 "accidental" solutions differ only in the number
of steps they have taken between the _data_ and the answers. In order
to do them full justice I have arranged the 2nd class in sections,
according to the number of steps. The two Kings are fearfully
deliberate! I suppose walking quick, or taking short cuts, is
inconsistent with kingly dignity: but really, in reading THESEUS'
solution, one almost fancied he was "marking time," and making no
advance at all! The other King will, I hope, pardon me for having
altered "Coal" into "Cole." King Coilus, or Coil, seems to have reigned
soon after Arthur's time. Henry of Huntingdon identifies him with the
King Coël who first built walls round Colchester, which was named after
him. In the Chronicle of Robert of Gloucester we read:--

   "Aftur Kyng Aruirag, of wam we habbeth y told,
   Marius ys sone was kyng, quoynte mon & bold.
   And ys sone was aftur hym, _Coil_ was ys name,
   Bothe it were quoynte men, & of noble fame."

BALBUS lays it down as a general principle that "in order to ascertain
the cost of any one luncheon, it must come to the same amount upon two
different assumptions." (_Query._ Should not "it" be "we"? Otherwise the
_luncheon_ is represented as wishing to ascertain its own cost!) He then
makes two assumptions--one, that sandwiches cost nothing; the other,
that biscuits cost nothing, (either arrangement would lead to the shop
being inconveniently crowded!)--and brings out the unknown luncheons as
8_d._ and 19_d._, on each assumption. He then concludes that this
agreement of results "shows that the answers are correct." Now I propose
to disprove his general law by simply giving _one_ instance of its
failing. One instance is quite enough. In logical language, in order to
disprove a "universal affirmative," it is enough to prove its
contradictory, which is a "particular negative." (I must pause for a
digression on Logic, and especially on Ladies' Logic. The universal
affirmative "everybody says he's a duck" is crushed instantly by proving
the particular negative "Peter says he's a goose," which is equivalent
to "Peter does _not_ say he's a duck." And the universal negative
"nobody calls on her" is well met by the particular affirmative "_I_
called yesterday." In short, either of two contradictories disproves the
other: and the moral is that, since a particular proposition is much
more easily proved than a universal one, it is the wisest course, in
arguing with a Lady, to limit one's _own_ assertions to "particulars,"
and leave _her_ to prove the "universal" contradictory, if she can. You
will thus generally secure a _logical_ victory: a _practical_ victory is
not to be hoped for, since she can always fall back upon the crushing
remark "_that_ has nothing to do with it!"--a move for which Man has not
yet discovered any satisfactory answer. Now let us return to BALBUS.)
Here is my "particular negative," on which to test his rule. Suppose the
two recorded luncheons to have been "2 buns, one queen-cake, 2
sausage-rolls, and a bottle of Zoëdone: total, one-and-ninepence," and
"one bun, 2 queen-cakes, a sausage-roll, and a bottle of Zoëdone: total,
one-and-fourpence." And suppose Clara's unknown luncheon to have been "3
buns, one queen-cake, one sausage-roll, and 2 bottles of Zoëdone:" while
the two little sisters had been indulging in "8 buns, 4 queen-cakes, 2
sausage-rolls, and 6 bottles of Zoëdone." (Poor souls, how thirsty they
must have been!) If BALBUS will kindly try this by his principle of "two
assumptions," fi