e bridle, and stretched out both his arms to show Alice
what he meant, and this time he fell flat on his back, right under the
horse's feet.

'Plenty of practice!' he went on repeating, all the time that Alice was
getting him on his feet again. 'Plenty of practice!'

'It's too ridiculous!' cried Alice, losing all her patience this time.
'You ought to have a wooden horse on wheels, that you ought!'

'Does that kind go smoothly?' the Knight asked in a tone of great
interest, clasping his arms round the horse's neck as he spoke, just in
time to save himself from tumbling off again.

'Much more smoothly than a live horse,' Alice said, with a little scream
of laughter, in spite of all she could do to prevent it.

'I'll get one,' the Knight said thoughtfully to himself. 'One or
two--several.'

There was a short silence after this, and then the Knight went on again.
'I'm a great hand at inventing things. Now, I daresay you noticed, that
last time you picked me up, that I was looking rather thoughtful?'

'You WERE a little grave,' said Alice.

'Well, just then I was inventing a new way of getting over a gate--would
you like to hear it?'

'Very much indeed,' Alice said politely.

'I'll tell you how I came to think of it,' said the Knight. 'You see, I
said to myself, "The only difficulty is with the feet: the HEAD is high
enough already." Now, first I put my head on the top of the gate--then I
stand on my head--then the feet are high enough, you see--then I'm over,
you see.'

'Yes, I suppose you'd be over when that was done,' Alice said
thoughtfully: 'but don't you think it would be rather hard?'

'I haven't tried it yet,' the Knight said, gravely: 'so I can't tell for
certain--but I'm afraid it WOULD be a little hard.'

He looked so vexed at the idea, that Alice changed the subject hastily.
'What a curious helmet you've got!' she said cheerfully. 'Is that your
invention too?'

The Knight looked down proudly at his helmet, which hung from the
saddle. 'Yes,' he said, 'but I've invented a better one than that--like
a sugar loaf. When I used to wear it, if I fell off the horse, it always
touched the ground directly. So I had a VERY little way to fall, you
see--But there WAS the danger of falling INTO it, to be sure. That
happened to me once--and the worst of it was, before I could get out
again, the other White Knight came and put it on. He thought it was his
own helmet.'

The knight looked so solemn about it that Alice did not dare to laugh.
'I'm afraid you must have hurt him,' she said in a trembling voice,
'being on the top of his head.'

'I had to kick him, of course,' the Knight said, very seriously. 'And
then he took the helmet off again--but it took hours and hours to get me
out. I was as fast as--as lightning, you know.'

'But that's a different kind of fastness,' Alice objected.

The Knight shook his head. 'It was all kinds of fastness with me, I can
assure you!' he said. He raised his hands in some excitement as he said
this, and instantly rolled out of the saddle, and fell headlong into a
deep ditch.

Alice ran to the side of the ditch to look for him. She was rather
startled by the fall, as for some time he had kept on very well, and she
was afraid that he really WAS hurt this time. However, though she could
see nothing but the soles of his feet, she was much relieved to hear
that he was talking on in his usual tone. 'All kinds of fastness,'
he repeated: 'but it was careless of him to put another man's helmet
on--with the man in it, too.'

'How CAN you go on talking so quietly, head downwards?' Alice asked, as
she dragged him out by the feet, and laid him in a heap on the bank.

The Knight looked surprised at the question. 'What does it matter where
my body happens to be?' he said. 'My mind goes on working all the same.
In fact, the more head downwards I am, the more I keep inventing new
things.'

'Now the cleverest thing of the sort that I ever did,' he went on after
a pause, 'was inventing a new pudding during the meat-course.'

'In time to have it cooked for the next course?' said Alice. 'Well,
not the NEXT course,' the Knight said in a slow thoughtful tone: 'no,
certainly not the next COURSE.'

'Then it would have to be the next day. I suppose you wouldn't have two
pudding-courses in one dinner?'

'Well, not the NEXT day,' the Knight repeated as before: 'not the next
DAY. In fact,' he went on, holding his head down, and his voice getting
lower and lower, 'I don't believe that pudding ever WAS cooked! In fact,
I don't believe that pudding ever WILL be cooked! And yet it was a very
clever pudding to invent.'

'What did you mean it to be made of?' Alice asked, hoping to cheer him
up, for the poor Knight seemed quite low-spirited about it.

'It began with blotting paper,' the Knight answered with a groan.

'That wouldn't be very nice, I'm afraid--'

'Not very nice ALONE,' he interrupted, quite eagerly: 'but you've no
idea what a difference it makes mixing it with other things--such as
gunpowder and sealing-wax. And here I must leave you.' They had just
come to the end of the wood.

Alice could only look puzzled: she was think