ould have bought it.

    "Now cook me the fish!"
  That is easy, and will not take more than a minute.
    "Let it lie in a dish!"
  That is easy, because it already is in it.

    "Bring it here! Let me sup!"
  It is easy to set such a dish on the table.
    "Take the dish-cover up!"
  Ah, THAT is so hard that I fear I'm unable!

    For it holds it like glue--
  Holds the lid to the dish, while it lies in the middle:
    Which is easiest to do,
  Un-dish-cover the fish, or dishcover the riddle?'


'Take a minute to think about it, and then guess,' said the Red Queen.
'Meanwhile, we'll drink your health--Queen Alice's health!' she screamed
at the top of her voice, and all the guests began drinking it directly,
and very queerly they managed it: some of them put their glasses upon
their heads like extinguishers, and drank all that trickled down their
faces--others upset the decanters, and drank the wine as it ran off
the edges of the table--and three of them (who looked like kangaroos)
scrambled into the dish of roast mutton, and began eagerly lapping up
the gravy, 'just like pigs in a trough!' thought Alice.

'You ought to return thanks in a neat speech,' the Red Queen said,
frowning at Alice as she spoke.

'We must support you, you know,' the White Queen whispered, as Alice got
up to do it, very obediently, but a little frightened.

'Thank you very much,' she whispered in reply, 'but I can do quite well
without.'

'That wouldn't be at all the thing,' the Red Queen said very decidedly:
so Alice tried to submit to it with a good grace.

('And they DID push so!' she said afterwards, when she was telling her
sister the history of the feast. 'You would have thought they wanted to
squeeze me flat!')

In fact it was rather difficult for her to keep in her place while she
made her speech: the two Queens pushed her so, one on each side, that
they nearly lifted her up into the air: 'I rise to return thanks--'
Alice began: and she really DID rise as she spoke, several inches; but
she got hold of the edge of the table, and managed to pull herself down
again.

'Take care of yourself!' screamed the White Queen, seizing Alice's hair
with both her hands. 'Something's going to happen!'

And then (as Alice afterwards described it) all sorts of things happened
in a moment. The candles all grew up to the ceiling, looking something
like a bed of rushes with fireworks at the top. As to the bottles, they
each took a pair of plates, which they hastily fitted on as wings, and
so, with forks for legs, went fluttering about in all directions: 'and
very like birds they look,' Alice thought to herself, as well as she
could in the dreadful confusion that was beginning.

At this moment she heard a hoarse laugh at her side, and turned to see
what was the matter with the White Queen; but, instead of the Queen,
there was the leg of mutton sitting in the chair. 'Here I am!' cried a
voice from the soup tureen, and Alice turned again, just in time to see
the Queen's broad good-natured face grinning at her for a moment over
the edge of the tureen, before she disappeared into the soup.

There was not a moment to be lost. Already several of the guests were
lying down in the dishes, and the soup ladle was walking up the table
towards Alice's chair, and beckoning to her impatiently to get out of
its way.

'I can't stand this any longer!' she cried as she jumped up and seized
the table-cloth with both hands: one good pull, and plates, dishes,
guests, and candles came crashing down together in a heap on the floor.

'And as for YOU,' she went on, turning fiercely upon the Red Queen, whom
she considered as the cause of all the mischief--but the Queen was no
longer at her side--she had suddenly dwindled down to the size of a
little doll, and was now on the table, merrily running round and round
after her own shawl, which was trailing behind her.

At any other time, Alice would have felt surprised at this, but she was
far too much excited to be surprised at anything NOW. 'As for YOU,'
she repeated, catching hold of the little creature in the very act of
jumping over a bottle which had just lighted upon the table, 'I'll shake
you into a kitten, that I will!'




CHAPTER X. Shaking

She took her off the table as she spoke, and shook her backwards and
forwards with all her might.

The Red Queen made no resistance whatever; only her face grew very
small, and her eyes got large and green: and still, as Alice went on
shaking her, she kept on growing shorter--and fatter--and softer--and
rounder--and--




CHAPTER XI. Waking

--and it really WAS a kitten, after all.




CHAPTER XII. Which Dreamed it?

'Your majesty shouldn't purr so loud,' Alice said, rubbing her eyes, and
addressing the kitten, respectfully, yet with some severity. 'You
woke me out of oh! such a nice dream! And you've been along with me,
Kitty--all through the Looking-Glass world. Did you know it, dear?'

It is a very inconvenient habit of kittens (Alice had once made the
remark) that, whatever you say to them, they ALWAYS purr. 'If they would
only purr for "yes" and mew for "no," or any rule of that sort,' sh