the King repeated impatiently. 'I must have Two--to
fetch and carry. One to fetch, and one to carry.'

At this moment the Messenger arrived: he was far too much out of breath
to say a word, and could only wave his hands about, and make the most
fearful faces at the poor King.

'This young lady loves you with an H,' the King said, introducing Alice
in the hope of turning off the Messenger's attention from himself--but
it was no use--the Anglo-Saxon attitudes only got more extraordinary
every moment, while the great eyes rolled wildly from side to side.

'You alarm me!' said the King. 'I feel faint--Give me a ham sandwich!'

On which the Messenger, to Alice's great amusement, opened a bag that
hung round his neck, and handed a sandwich to the King, who devoured it
greedily.

'Another sandwich!' said the King.

'There's nothing but hay left now,' the Messenger said, peeping into the
bag.

'Hay, then,' the King murmured in a faint whisper.

Alice was glad to see that it revived him a good deal. 'There's nothing
like eating hay when you're faint,' he remarked to her, as he munched
away.

'I should think throwing cold water over you would be better,' Alice
suggested: 'or some sal-volatile.'

'I didn't say there was nothing BETTER,' the King replied. 'I said there
was nothing LIKE it.' Which Alice did not venture to deny.

'Who did you pass on the road?' the King went on, holding out his hand
to the Messenger for some more hay.

'Nobody,' said the Messenger.

'Quite right,' said the King: 'this young lady saw him too. So of course
Nobody walks slower than you.'

'I do my best,' the Messenger said in a sulky tone. 'I'm sure nobody
walks much faster than I do!'

'He can't do that,' said the King, 'or else he'd have been here first.
However, now you've got your breath, you may tell us what's happened in
the town.'

'I'll whisper it,' said the Messenger, putting his hands to his mouth
in the shape of a trumpet, and stooping so as to get close to the King's
ear. Alice was sorry for this, as she wanted to hear the news too.
However, instead of whispering, he simply shouted at the top of his
voice 'They're at it again!'

'Do you call THAT a whisper?' cried the poor King, jumping up and
shaking himself. 'If you do such a thing again, I'll have you buttered!
It went through and through my head like an earthquake!'

'It would have to be a very tiny earthquake!' thought Alice. 'Who are at
it again?' she ventured to ask.

'Why the Lion and the Unicorn, of course,' said the King.

'Fighting for the crown?'

'Yes, to be sure,' said the King: 'and the best of the joke is, that
it's MY crown all the while! Let's run and see them.' And they trotted
off, Alice repeating to herself, as she ran, the words of the old
song:--


   'The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown:
   The Lion beat the Unicorn all round the town.
   Some gave them white bread, some gave them brown;
   Some gave them plum-cake and drummed them out of town.'


'Does--the one--that wins--get the crown?' she asked, as well as she
could, for the run was putting her quite out of breath.

'Dear me, no!' said the King. 'What an idea!'

'Would you--be good enough,' Alice panted out, after running a little
further, 'to stop a minute--just to get--one's breath again?'

'I'm GOOD enough,' the King said, 'only I'm not strong enough. You see,
a minute goes by so fearfully quick. You might as well try to stop a
Bandersnatch!'

Alice had no more breath for talking, so they trotted on in silence,
till they came in sight of a great crowd, in the middle of which the
Lion and Unicorn were fighting. They were in such a cloud of dust, that
at first Alice could not make out which was which: but she soon managed
to distinguish the Unicorn by his horn.

They placed themselves close to where Hatta, the other messenger, was
standing watching the fight, with a cup of tea in one hand and a piece
of bread-and-butter in the other.

'He's only just out of prison, and he hadn't finished his tea when
he was sent in,' Haigha whispered to Alice: 'and they only give them
oyster-shells in there--so you see he's very hungry and thirsty. How
are you, dear child?' he went on, putting his arm affectionately round
Hatta's neck.

Hatta looked round and nodded, and went on with his bread and butter.

'Were you happy in prison, dear child?' said Haigha.

Hatta looked round once more, and this time a tear or two trickled down
his cheek: but not a word would he say.

'Speak, can't you!' Haigha cried impatiently. But Hatta only munched
away, and drank some more tea.

'Speak, won't you!' cried the King. 'How are they getting on with the
fight?'

Hatta made a desperate effort, and swallowed a large piece of
bread-and-butter. 'They're getting on very well,' he said in a choking
voice: 'each of them has been down about eighty-seven times.'

'Then I suppose they'll soon bring the white bread and the brown?' Alice
ventured to remark.

'It's waiting for 'em now,' said Hatta: 'this is a bit of it as I'm
eating.'

There was a pause in the fight just then, and the Lion and the Unicorn
sat down, panting, while the King called