dn't have been the
messenger for ANYTHING!'


     'But he was very stiff and proud;
     He said "You needn't shout so loud!"

     And he was very proud and stiff;
     He said "I'd go and wake them, if--"

     I took a corkscrew from the shelf:
     I went to wake them up myself.

     And when I found the door was locked,
     I pulled and pushed and kicked and knocked.

     And when I found the door was shut,
     I tried to turn the handle, but--'


There was a long pause.

'Is that all?' Alice timidly asked.

'That's all,' said Humpty Dumpty. 'Good-bye.'

This was rather sudden, Alice thought: but, after such a VERY strong
hint that she ought to be going, she felt that it would hardly be civil
to stay. So she got up, and held out her hand. 'Good-bye, till we meet
again!' she said as cheerfully as she could.

'I shouldn't know you again if we DID meet,' Humpty Dumpty replied in
a discontented tone, giving her one of his fingers to shake; 'you're so
exactly like other people.'

'The face is what one goes by, generally,' Alice remarked in a
thoughtful tone.

'That's just what I complain of,' said Humpty Dumpty. 'Your face is the
same as everybody has--the two eyes, so--' (marking their places in the
air with this thumb) 'nose in the middle, mouth under. It's always the
same. Now if you had the two eyes on the same side of the nose, for
instance--or the mouth at the top--that would be SOME help.'

'It wouldn't look nice,' Alice objected. But Humpty Dumpty only shut his
eyes and said 'Wait till you've tried.'

Alice waited a minute to see if he would speak again, but as he never
opened his eyes or took any further notice of her, she said 'Good-bye!'
once more, and, getting no answer to this, she quietly walked away:
but she couldn't help saying to herself as she went, 'Of all the
unsatisfactory--' (she repeated this aloud, as it was a great comfort to
have such a long word to say) 'of all the unsatisfactory people I EVER
met--' She never finished the sentence, for at this moment a heavy crash
shook the forest from end to end.




CHAPTER VII. The Lion and the Unicorn

The next moment soldiers came running through the wood, at first in twos
and threes, then ten or twenty together, and at last in such crowds that
they seemed to fill the whole forest. Alice got behind a tree, for fear
of being run over, and watched them go by.

She thought that in all her life she had never seen soldiers so
uncertain on their feet: they were always tripping over something or
other, and whenever one went down, several more always fell over him, so
that the ground was soon covered with little heaps of men.

Then came the horses. Having four feet, these managed rather better than
the foot-soldiers: but even THEY stumbled now and then; and it seemed
to be a regular rule that, whenever a horse stumbled the rider fell off
instantly. The confusion got worse every moment, and Alice was very glad
to get out of the wood into an open place, where she found the White
King seated on the ground, busily writing in his memorandum-book.

'I've sent them all!' the King cried in a tone of delight, on seeing
Alice. 'Did you happen to meet any soldiers, my dear, as you came
through the wood?'

'Yes, I did,' said Alice: 'several thousand, I should think.'

'Four thousand two hundred and seven, that's the exact number,' the King
said, referring to his book. 'I couldn't send all the horses, you know,
because two of them are wanted in the game. And I haven't sent the two
Messengers, either. They're both gone to the town. Just look along the
road, and tell me if you can see either of them.'

'I see nobody on the road,' said Alice.

'I only wish _I_ had such eyes,' the King remarked in a fretful tone.
'To be able to see Nobody! And at that distance, too! Why, it's as much
as _I_ can do to see real people, by this light!'

All this was lost on Alice, who was still looking intently along
the road, shading her eyes with one hand. 'I see somebody now!' she
exclaimed at last. 'But he's coming very slowly--and what curious
attitudes he goes into!' (For the messenger kept skipping up and down,
and wriggling like an eel, as he came along, with his great hands spread
out like fans on each side.)

'Not at all,' said the King. 'He's an Anglo-Saxon Messenger--and those
are Anglo-Saxon attitudes. He only does them when he's happy. His name
is Haigha.' (He pronounced it so as to rhyme with 'mayor.')

'I love my love with an H,' Alice couldn't help beginning, 'because
he is Happy. I hate him with an H, because he is Hideous. I fed him
with--with--with Ham-sandwiches and Hay. His name is Haigha, and he
lives--'

'He lives on the Hill,' the King remarked simply, without the least idea
that he was joining in the game, while Alice was still hesitating for
the name of a town beginning with H. 'The other Messenger's called
Hatta. I must have TWO, you know--to come and go. One to come, and one
to go.'

'I beg your pardon?' said Alice.

'It isn't respectable to beg,' said the King.

'I only meant that I didn't understand,' said Alice. 'Why one to come
and one to go?'

'Didn't I tell you?' 