d Mathesis was just
beginning, when Clara ventured to interpose.

"There's no jolting here," she pleaded meekly. "_Would_ you mind writing
it down now?"

Out came the ivory tablets once more. "What was it, then?" said her
aunt.

"One glass of lemonade, one sandwich, one biscuit--Oh dear me!" cried
poor Clara, the historical tone suddenly changing to a wail of agony.

"Toothache?" said her aunt calmly, as she wrote down the items. The two
sisters instantly opened their reticules and produced two different
remedies for neuralgia, each marked "unequalled."

"It isn't that!" said poor Clara. "Thank you very much. It's only that I
_can't_ remember how much I paid!"

"Well, try and make it out, then," said her aunt. "You've got
yesterday's luncheon to help you, you know. And here's the luncheon we
had the day before--the first day we went to that shop--_one
glass lemonade_, _four sandwiches_, _ten biscuits_. _Total,
one-and-fivepence._" She handed the tablets to Clara, who gazed at them
with eyes so dim with tears that she did not at first notice that she
was holding them upside down.

The two sisters had been listening to all this with the deepest
interest, and at this juncture the smaller one softly laid her hand on
Clara's arm.

"Do you know, my dear," she said coaxingly, "my sister and I are in the
very same predicament! Quite identically the very same predicament!
Aren't we, sister?"

"Quite identically and absolutely the very----" began the fatter sister,
but she was constructing her sentence on too large a scale, and the
little one would not wait for her to finish it.

"Yes, my dear," she resumed; "we were lunching at the very same shop as
you were--and we had two glasses of lemonade and three sandwiches and
five biscuits--and neither of us has the least idea what we paid. Have
we, sister?"

"Quite identically and absolutely----" murmured the other, who evidently
considered that she was now a whole sentence in arrears, and that she
ought to discharge one obligation before contracting any fresh
liabilities; but the little lady broke in again, and she retired from
the conversation a bankrupt.

"_Would_ you make it out for us, my dear?" pleaded the little old lady.

"You can do Arithmetic, I trust?" her aunt said, a little anxiously, as
Clara turned from one tablet to another, vainly trying to collect her
thoughts. Her mind was a blank, and all human expression was rapidly
fading out of her face.

A gloomy silence ensued.




KNOT VIII.

DE OMNIBUS REBUS.

   "This little pig went to market:
   This little pig staid at home."


"By Her Radiancy's express command," said the Governor, as he conducted
the travellers, for the last time, from the Imperial presence, "I shall
now have the ecstasy of escorting you as far as the outer gate of the
Military Quarter, where the agony of parting--if indeed Nature can
survive the shock--must be endured! From that gate grurmstipths start
every quarter of an hour, both ways----"

"Would you mind repeating that word?" said Norman. "Grurm----?"

"Grurmstipths," the Governor repeated. "You call them omnibuses in
England. They run both ways, and you can travel by one of them all the
way down to the harbour."

The old man breathed a sigh of relief; four hours of courtly ceremony
had wearied him, and he had been in constant terror lest something
should call into use the ten thousand additional bamboos.

In another minute they were crossing a large quadrangle, paved with
marble, and tastefully decorated with a pigsty in each corner. Soldiers,
carrying pigs, were marching in all directions: and in the middle stood
a gigantic officer giving orders in a voice of thunder, which made
itself heard above all the uproar of the pigs.

"It is the Commander-in-Chief!" the Governor hurriedly whispered to his
companions, who at once followed his example in prostrating themselves
before the great man. The Commander gravely bowed in return. He was
covered with gold lace from head to foot: his face wore an expression of
deep misery: and he had a little black pig under each arm. Still the
gallant fellow did his best, in the midst of the orders he was every
moment issuing to his men, to bid a courteous farewell to the departing
guests.

"Farewell, oh old one--carry these three to the South corner--and
farewell to thee, thou young one--put this fat one on the top of the
others in the Western sty--may your shadows never be less--woe is me, it
is wrongly done! Empty out all the sties, and begin again!" And the
soldier leant upon his sword, and wiped away a tear.

"He is in distress," the Governor explained as they left the court. "Her
Radiancy has commanded him to place twenty-four pigs in those four
sties, so that, as she goes round the court, she may always find the
number in each sty nearer to ten than the number in the last."

"Does she call ten nearer to ten than nine is?" said Norman.

"Surely," said the Governor. "Her Radiancy would admit that ten is
nearer to ten than nine is--and also nearer than eleven is."

"Then I think it can be done," said Norman.

The Governor shook his head. "The Commander has been transf