ou should see 'em come round me of a Saturday night,' Humpty
Dumpty went on, wagging his head gravely from side to side: 'for to get
their wages, you know.'

(Alice didn't venture to ask what he paid them with; and so you see I
can't tell YOU.)

'You seem very clever at explaining words, Sir,' said Alice. 'Would you
kindly tell me the meaning of the poem called "Jabberwocky"?'

'Let's hear it,' said Humpty Dumpty. 'I can explain all the poems that
were ever invented--and a good many that haven't been invented just
yet.'

This sounded very hopeful, so Alice repeated the first verse:

     'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
     All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.

'That's enough to begin with,' Humpty Dumpty interrupted: 'there
are plenty of hard words there. "BRILLIG" means four o'clock in the
afternoon--the time when you begin BROILING things for dinner.'

'That'll do very well,' said Alice: 'and "SLITHY"?'

'Well, "SLITHY" means "lithe and slimy." "Lithe" is the same as
"active." You see it's like a portmanteau--there are two meanings packed
up into one word.'

'I see it now,' Alice remarked thoughtfully: 'and what are "TOVES"?'

'Well, "TOVES" are something like badgers--they're something like
lizards--and they're something like corkscrews.'

'They must be very curious looking creatures.'

'They are that,' said Humpty Dumpty: 'also they make their nests under
sun-dials--also they live on cheese.'

'And what's the "GYRE" and to "GIMBLE"?'

'To "GYRE" is to go round and round like a gyroscope. To "GIMBLE" is to
make holes like a gimlet.'

'And "THE WABE" is the grass-plot round a sun-dial, I suppose?' said
Alice, surprised at her own ingenuity.

'Of course it is. It's called "WABE," you know, because it goes a long
way before it, and a long way behind it--'

'And a long way beyond it on each side,' Alice added.

'Exactly so. Well, then, "MIMSY" is "flimsy and miserable" (there's
another portmanteau for you). And a "BOROGOVE" is a thin shabby-looking
bird with its feathers sticking out all round--something like a live
mop.'

'And then "MOME RATHS"?' said Alice. 'I'm afraid I'm giving you a great
deal of trouble.'

'Well, a "RATH" is a sort of green pig: but "MOME" I'm not certain
about. I think it's short for "from home"--meaning that they'd lost
their way, you know.'

'And what does "OUTGRABE" mean?'

'Well, "OUTGRABING" is something between bellowing and whistling, with a
kind of sneeze in the middle: however, you'll hear it done, maybe--down
in the wood yonder--and when you've once heard it you'll be QUITE
content. Who's been repeating all that hard stuff to you?'

'I read it in a book,' said Alice. 'But I had some poetry repeated to
me, much easier than that, by--Tweedledee, I think it was.'

'As to poetry, you know,' said Humpty Dumpty, stretching out one of his
great hands, '_I_ can repeat poetry as well as other folk, if it comes
to that--'

'Oh, it needn't come to that!' Alice hastily said, hoping to keep him
from beginning.

'The piece I'm going to repeat,' he went on without noticing her remark,
'was written entirely for your amusement.'

Alice felt that in that case she really OUGHT to listen to it, so she
sat down, and said 'Thank you' rather sadly.


     'In winter, when the fields are white,
     I sing this song for your delight--


only I don't sing it,' he added, as an explanation.

'I see you don't,' said Alice.

'If you can SEE whether I'm singing or not, you've sharper eyes than
most.' Humpty Dumpty remarked severely. Alice was silent.


     'In spring, when woods are getting green,
     I'll try and tell you what I mean.'


'Thank you very much,' said Alice.


     'In summer, when the days are long,
     Perhaps you'll understand the song:
     In autumn, when the leaves are brown,
     Take pen and ink, and write it down.'


'I will, if I can remember it so long,' said Alice.

'You needn't go on making remarks like that,' Humpty Dumpty said:
'they're not sensible, and they put me out.'

     'I sent a message to the fish:
     I told them "This is what I wish."

     The little fishes of the sea,
     They sent an answer back to me.

     The little fishes' answer was
     "We cannot do it, Sir, because--"'


'I'm afraid I don't quite understand,' said Alice.

'It gets easier further on,' Humpty Dumpty replied.


     'I sent to them again to say
     "It will be better to obey."

     The fishes answered with a grin,
     "Why, what a temper you are in!"

     I told them once, I told them twice:
     They would not listen to advice.

     I took a kettle large and new,
     Fit for the deed I had to do.

     My heart went hop, my heart went thump;
     I filled the kettle at the pump.

     Then some one came to me and said,
     "The little fishes are in bed."

     I said to him, I said it plain,
     "Then you must wake them up again."

     I said it very loud and clear;
     I went and shouted in his ear.'


Humpty Dumpty raised his voice almost to a scream as he repeated this
verse, and Alice thought with a shudder, 'I woul