erring them
in vain for four months," he said. "What hope remains? And Her Radiancy
has ordered up ten thousand additional----"

"The pigs don't seem to enjoy being transferred," the old man hastily
interrupted. He did not like the subject of bamboos.

"They are only _provisionally_ transferred, you know," said the
Governor. "In most cases they are immediately carried back again: so
they need not mind it. And all is done with the greatest care, under the
personal superintendence of the Commander-in-Chief."

"Of course she would only go _once_ round?" said Norman.

"Alas, no!" sighed their conductor. "Round and round. Round and round.
These are Her Radiancy's own words. But oh, agony! Here is the outer
gate, and we must part!" He sobbed as he shook hands with them, and the
next moment was briskly walking away.

"He _might_ have waited to see us off!" said the old man, piteously.

"And he needn't have begun whistling the very _moment_ he left us!" said
the young one, severely. "But look sharp--here are two what's-his-names
in the act of starting!"

Unluckily, the sea-bound omnibus was full. "Never mind!" said Norman,
cheerily. "We'll walk on till the next one overtakes us."

They trudged on in silence, both thinking over the military problem,
till they met an omnibus coming from the sea. The elder traveller took
out his watch. "Just twelve minutes and a half since we started," he
remarked in an absent manner. Suddenly the vacant face brightened; the
old man had an idea. "My boy!" he shouted, bringing his hand down upon
Norman's shoulder so suddenly as for a moment to transfer his centre of
gravity beyond the base of support.

Thus taken off his guard, the young man wildly staggered forwards, and
seemed about to plunge into space: but in another moment he had
gracefully recovered himself. "Problem in Precession and Nutation," he
remarked--in tones where filial respect only just managed to conceal a
shade of annoyance. "What is it?" he hastily added, fearing his father
might have been taken ill. "Will you have some brandy?"

"When will the next omnibus overtake us? When? When?" the old man cried,
growing more excited every moment.

Norman looked gloomy. "Give me time," he said. "I must think it over."
And once more the travellers passed on in silence--a silence only broken
by the distant squeals of the unfortunate little pigs, who were still
being provisionally transferred from sty to sty, under the personal
superintendence of the Commander-in-Chief.




KNOT IX.

A SERPENT WITH CORNERS.

   "Water, water, every where,
   Nor any drop to drink."


"It'll just take one more pebble."

"What ever _are_ you doing with those buckets?"

The speakers were Hugh and Lambert. Place, the beach of Little Mendip.
Time, 1.30, P.M. Hugh was floating a bucket in another a size larger,
and trying how many pebbles it would carry without sinking. Lambert was
lying on his back, doing nothing.

For the next minute or two Hugh was silent, evidently deep in thought.
Suddenly he started. "I say, look here, Lambert!" he cried.

"If it's alive, and slimy, and with legs, I don't care to," said
Lambert.

"Didn't Balbus say this morning that, if a body is immersed in liquid,
it displaces as much liquid as is equal to its own bulk?" said Hugh.

"He said things of that sort," Lambert vaguely replied.

"Well, just look here a minute. Here's the little bucket almost quite
immersed: so the water displaced ought to be just about the same bulk.
And now just look at it!" He took out the little bucket as he spoke, and
handed the big one to Lambert. "Why, there's hardly a teacupful! Do you
mean to say _that_ water is the same bulk as the little bucket?"

"Course it is," said Lambert.

"Well, look here again!" cried Hugh, triumphantly, as he poured the
water from the big bucket into the little one. "Why, it doesn't half
fill it!"

"That's _its_ business," said Lambert. "If Balbus says it's the same
bulk, why, it _is_ the same bulk, you know."

"Well, I don't believe it," said Hugh.

"You needn't," said Lambert. "Besides, it's dinner-time. Come along."

They found Balbus waiting dinner for them, and to him Hugh at once
propounded his difficulty.

"Let's get you helped first," said Balbus, briskly cutting away at the
joint. "You know the old proverb 'Mutton first, mechanics afterwards'?"

The boys did _not_ know the proverb, but they accepted it in perfect
good faith, as they did every piece of information, however startling,
that came from so infallible an authority as their tutor. They ate on
steadily in silence, and, when dinner was over, Hugh set out the usual
array of pens, ink, and paper, while Balbus repeated to them the problem
he had prepared for their afternoon's task.

"A friend of mine has a flower-garden--a very pretty one, though no
great size--"

"How big is it?" said Hugh.

"That's what _you_ have to find out!" Balbus gaily replied. "All _I_
tell you is that it is oblong in shape--just half a yard longer than its
width--and that a gravel-walk, one yard wide, begins at one corner and
runs all round it."

"Joining into itself?" said Hugh.

"_Not_ joining i