n, but to her
great surprise, they all THOUGHT in chorus (I hope you understand what
THINKING IN CHORUS means--for I must confess that _I_ don't), 'Better
say nothing at all. Language is worth a thousand pounds a word!'

'I shall dream about a thousand pounds tonight, I know I shall!' thought
Alice.

All this time the Guard was looking at her, first through a telescope,
then through a microscope, and then through an opera-glass. At last he
said, 'You're travelling the wrong way,' and shut up the window and went
away.

'So young a child,' said the gentleman sitting opposite to her (he was
dressed in white paper), 'ought to know which way she's going, even if
she doesn't know her own name!'

A Goat, that was sitting next to the gentleman in white, shut his
eyes and said in a loud voice, 'She ought to know her way to the
ticket-office, even if she doesn't know her alphabet!'

There was a Beetle sitting next to the Goat (it was a very queer
carriage-full of passengers altogether), and, as the rule seemed to be
that they should all speak in turn, HE went on with 'She'll have to go
back from here as luggage!'

Alice couldn't see who was sitting beyond the Beetle, but a hoarse voice
spoke next. 'Change engines--' it said, and was obliged to leave off.

'It sounds like a horse,' Alice thought to herself. And an extremely
small voice, close to her ear, said, 'You might make a joke on
that--something about "horse" and "hoarse," you know.'

Then a very gentle voice in the distance said, 'She must be labelled
"Lass, with care," you know--'

And after that other voices went on ('What a number of people there are
in the carriage!' thought Alice), saying, 'She must go by post, as she's
got a head on her--' 'She must be sent as a message by the telegraph--'
'She must draw the train herself the rest of the way--' and so on.

But the gentleman dressed in white paper leaned forwards and whispered
in her ear, 'Never mind what they all say, my dear, but take a
return-ticket every time the train stops.'

'Indeed I shan't!' Alice said rather impatiently. 'I don't belong to
this railway journey at all--I was in a wood just now--and I wish I
could get back there.'

'You might make a joke on THAT,' said the little voice close to her ear:
'something about "you WOULD if you could," you know.'

'Don't tease so,' said Alice, looking about in vain to see where the
voice came from; 'if you're so anxious to have a joke made, why don't
you make one yourself?'

The little voice sighed deeply: it was VERY unhappy, evidently, and
Alice would have said something pitying to comfort it, 'If it would only
sigh like other people!' she thought. But this was such a wonderfully
small sigh, that she wouldn't have heard it at all, if it hadn't come
QUITE close to her ear. The consequence of this was that it tickled her
ear very much, and quite took off her thoughts from the unhappiness of
the poor little creature.

'I know you are a friend,' the little voice went on; 'a dear friend, and
an old friend. And you won't hurt me, though I AM an insect.'

'What kind of insect?' Alice inquired a little anxiously. What she
really wanted to know was, whether it could sting or not, but she
thought this wouldn't be quite a civil question to ask.

'What, then you don't--' the little voice began, when it was drowned by
a shrill scream from the engine, and everybody jumped up in alarm, Alice
among the rest.

The Horse, who had put his head out of the window, quietly drew it in
and said, 'It's only a brook we have to jump over.' Everybody seemed
satisfied with this, though Alice felt a little nervous at the idea of
trains jumping at all. 'However, it'll take us into the Fourth Square,
that's some comfort!' she said to herself. In another moment she felt
the carriage rise straight up into the air, and in her fright she caught
at the thing nearest to her hand, which happened to be the Goat's beard.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

But the beard seemed to melt away as she touched it, and she found
herself sitting quietly under a tree--while the Gnat (for that was the
insect she had been talking to) was balancing itself on a twig just over
her head, and fanning her with its wings.

It certainly was a VERY large Gnat: 'about the size of a chicken,' Alice
thought. Still, she couldn't feel nervous with it, after they had been
talking together so long.

'--then you don't like all insects?' the Gnat went on, as quietly as if
nothing had happened.

'I like them when they can talk,' Alice said. 'None of them ever talk,
where _I_ come from.'

'What sort of insects do you rejoice in, where YOU come from?' the Gnat
inquired.

'I don't REJOICE in insects at all,' Alice explained, 'because I'm
rather afraid of them--at least the large kinds. But I can tell you the
names of some of them.'

'Of course they answer to their names?' the Gnat remarked carelessly.

'I never knew them to do it.'

'What's the use of their having names,' the Gnat said, 'if they won't
answer to them?'

'No use to THEM,' said Alice; 'but it's useful to the peopl