comb and
brush, except myself.  Everybody stares to see me using my own; and two
or three gentlemen are strongly disposed to banter me on my prejudices,
but don’t.  When I have made my toilet, I go upon the hurricane-deck, and
set in for two hours of hard walking up and down.  The sun is rising
brilliantly; we are passing Mount Vernon, where Washington lies buried;
the river is wide and rapid; and its banks are beautiful.  All the glory
and splendour of the day are coming on, and growing brighter every
minute.

At eight o’clock, we breakfast in the cabin where I passed the night, but
the windows and doors are all thrown open, and now it is fresh enough.
There is no hurry or greediness apparent in the despatch of the meal.  It
is longer than a travelling breakfast with us; more orderly, and more
polite.

Soon after nine o’clock we come to Potomac Creek, where we are to land;
and then comes the oddest part of the journey.  Seven stage-coaches are
preparing to carry us on.  Some of them are ready, some of them are not
ready.  Some of the drivers are blacks, some whites.  There are four
horses to each coach, and all the horses, harnessed or unharnessed, are
there.  The passengers are getting out of the steamboat, and into the
coaches; the luggage is being transferred in noisy wheelbarrows; the
horses are frightened, and impatient to start; the black drivers are
chattering to them like so many monkeys; and the white ones whooping like
so many drovers: for the main thing to be done in all kinds of hostlering
here, is to make as much noise as possible.  The coaches are something
like the French coaches, but not nearly so good.  In lieu of springs,
they are hung on bands of the strongest leather.  There is very little
choice or difference between them; and they may be likened to the car
portion of the swings at an English fair, roofed, put upon axle-trees and
wheels, and curtained with painted canvas.  They are covered with mud
from the roof to the wheel-tire, and have never been cleaned since they
were first built.

The tickets we have received on board the steamboat are marked No. 1, so
we belong to coach No. 1.  I throw my coat on the box, and hoist my wife
and her maid into the inside.  It has only one step, and that being about
a yard from the ground, is usually approached by a chair: when there is
no chair, ladies trust in Providence.  The coach holds nine inside,
having a seat across from door to door, where we in England put our legs:
so that there is only one feat more difficult in the performance than
getting in, and that is, getting out again.  There is only one outside
passenger, and he sits upon the box.  As I am that one, I climb up; and
while they are strapping the luggage on the roof, and heaping it into a
kind of tray behind, have a good opportunity of looking at the driver.

He is a negro—very black indeed.  He is dressed in a coarse
pepper-and-salt suit excessively patched and darned (particularly at the
knees), grey stockings, enormous unblacked high-low shoes, and very short
trousers.  He has two odd gloves: one of parti-coloured worsted, and one
of leather.  He has a very short whip, broken in the middle and bandaged
up with string.  And yet he wears a low-crowned, broad-brimmed, black
hat: faintly shadowing forth a kind of insane imitation of an English
coachman!  But somebody in authority cries ‘Go ahead!’ as I am making
these observations.  The mail takes the lead in a four-horse waggon, and
all the coaches follow in procession: headed by No. 1.

By the way, whenever an Englishman would cry ‘All right!’ an American
cries ‘Go ahead!’ which is somewhat expressive of the national character
of the two countries.

The first half-mile of the road is over bridges made of loose planks laid
across two parallel poles, which tilt up as the wheels roll over them;
and IN the river.  The river has a clayey bottom and is full of holes, so
that half a horse is constantly disappearing unexpectedly, and can’t be
found again for some time.

But we get past even this, and come to the road itself, which is a series
of alternate swamps and gravel-pits.  A tremendous place is close before
us, the black driver rolls his eyes, screws his mouth up very round, and
looks straight between the two leaders, as if he were saying to himself,
‘We have done this often before, but _now_ I think we shall have a
crash.’  He takes a rein in each hand; jerks and pulls at both; and
dances on the splashboard with both feet (keeping his seat, of course)
like the late lamented Ducrow on two of his fiery coursers.  We come to
the spot, sink down in the mire nearly to the coach windows, tilt on one
side at an angle of forty-five degrees, and stick there.  The insides
scream dismally; the coach stops; the horses flounder; all the other six
coaches stop; and their four-and-twenty horses flounder likewise: but
merely for company, and in sympathy with ours.  Then the following
circumstances occur.

BLACK DRIVER (to the horses).  ‘Hi!’

Nothing happens.  Insides scream again.

BLACK DRIVER (to the horses).  ‘Ho!’

Horses plunge, and splash the black driver.
