t for this. I
should have died in a ditch. Where's he who when I was a weak and sickly
wretch, with trembling legs and fading sight, bade me cheer up, as this
did? I never knew him; not I. I drink to the drink, master. Ha ha ha!'

'You are an exceedingly cheerful young man,' said Mr Chester, putting
on his cravat with great deliberation, and slightly moving his head
from side to side to settle his chin in its proper place. 'Quite a boon
companion.'

'Do you see this hand, master,' said Hugh, 'and this arm?' baring the
brawny limb to the elbow. 'It was once mere skin and bone, and would
have been dust in some poor churchyard by this time, but for the drink.'

'You may cover it,' said Mr Chester, 'it's sufficiently real in your
sleeve.'

'I should never have been spirited up to take a kiss from the proud
little beauty, master, but for the drink,' cried Hugh. 'Ha ha ha! It was
a good one. As sweet as honeysuckle, I warrant you. I thank the drink
for it. I'll drink to the drink again, master. Fill me one more. Come.
One more!'

'You are such a promising fellow,' said his patron, putting on his
waistcoat with great nicety, and taking no heed of this request, 'that
I must caution you against having too many impulses from the drink, and
getting hung before your time. What's your age?'

'I don't know.'

'At any rate,' said Mr Chester, 'you are young enough to escape what
I may call a natural death for some years to come. How can you trust
yourself in my hands on so short an acquaintance, with a halter round
your neck? What a confiding nature yours must be!'

Hugh fell back a pace or two and surveyed him with a look of mingled
terror, indignation, and surprise. Regarding himself in the glass with
the same complacency as before, and speaking as smoothly as if he were
discussing some pleasant chit-chat of the town, his patron went on:

'Robbery on the king's highway, my young friend, is a very dangerous and
ticklish occupation. It is pleasant, I have no doubt, while it lasts;
but like many other pleasures in this transitory world, it seldom lasts
long. And really if in the ingenuousness of youth, you open your heart
so readily on the subject, I am afraid your career will be an extremely
short one.'

'How's this?' said Hugh. 'What do you talk of master? Who was it set me
on?'

'Who?' said Mr Chester, wheeling sharply round, and looking full at him
for the first time. 'I didn't hear you. Who was it?'

Hugh faltered, and muttered something which was not audible.

'Who was it? I am curious to know,' said Mr Chester, with surpassing
affability. 'Some rustic beauty perhaps? But be cautious, my good
friend. They are not always to be trusted. Do take my advice now, and be
careful of yourself.' With these words he turned to the glass again, and
went on with his toilet.

Hugh would have answered him that he, the questioner himself had set him
on, but the words stuck in his throat. The consummate art with which his
patron had led him to this point, and managed the whole conversation,
perfectly baffled him. He did not doubt that if he had made the retort
which was on his lips when Mr Chester turned round and questioned him
so keenly, he would straightway have given him into custody and had him
dragged before a justice with the stolen property upon him; in which
case it was as certain he would have been hung as it was that he had
been born. The ascendency which it was the purpose of the man of the
world to establish over this savage instrument, was gained from that
time. Hugh's submission was complete. He dreaded him beyond description;
and felt that accident and artifice had spun a web about him, which at a
touch from such a master-hand as his, would bind him to the gallows.

With these thoughts passing through his mind, and yet wondering at the
very same time how he who came there rioting in the confidence of this
man (as he thought), should be so soon and so thoroughly subdued, Hugh
stood cowering before him, regarding him uneasily from time to time,
while he finished dressing. When he had done so, he took up the
letter, broke the seal, and throwing himself back in his chair, read it
leisurely through.

'Very neatly worded upon my life! Quite a woman's letter, full of what
people call tenderness, and disinterestedness, and heart, and all that
sort of thing!'

As he spoke, he twisted it up, and glancing lazily round at Hugh as
though he would say 'You see this?' held it in the flame of the candle.
When it was in a full blaze, he tossed it into the grate, and there it
smouldered away.

'It was directed to my son,' he said, turning to Hugh, 'and you did
quite right to bring it here. I opened it on my own responsibility, and
you see what I have done with it. Take this, for your trouble.'

Hugh stepped forward to receive the piece of money he held out to him.
As he put it in his hand, he added:

'If you should happen to find anything else of this sort, or to pick
up any kind of information you may think I would like to have, bring it
here, will you, my good fellow?'

This was said with a smile which implied--or Hugh thought it did--'fail
to do so at 