rning call, and entering
unexpectedly, surprised Mr. Pickwick with his landlady fainting in his
arms in an hysterical condition.  This was a very awkward business.  The
delinquent, however, did not at once grasp the situation, and could not
"make head or tail of it, or what the lady meant."  His friends, however,
had their doubts:

    'What _is_ the matter?' said the three tongue-tied Pickwickians.

    'I don't know,' replied Mr. Pickwick, pettishly.  'Now, help me, lead
    this woman down stairs.'

    'Oh, I am better now,' said Mrs. Bardell, faintly.

    'Let me lead you downstairs,' said the ever gallant Mr. Tupman.

    'Thank you, sir--thank you?' exclaimed Mrs. Bardell hysterically.
    And downstairs she was led accordingly, accompanied by her
    affectionate son.

                      [Picture: The cause of action]

    'I cannot conceive--' said Mr. Pickwick, when his friend returned--'I
    cannot conceive what has been the matter with that woman.  I had
    merely announced to her my intention of keeping a man servant, when
    she fell into the extraordinary paroxysm in which you found her.
    Very extraordinary thing.'

    'Very,' said his three friends.

    'Placed me in such an extremely awkward situation,' continued Mr.
    Pickwick.

    'Very,' was the reply of his followers, as they coughed slightly, and
    looked dubiously at each other.

    This behaviour was not lost upon Mr. Pickwick.  He remarked their
    incredulity.  They evidently suspected him.

It may be reasonably supposed that Mr. Pickwick had not been very
discreet, or sufficiently cautious in his general behaviour to his
landlady.  As we know, he was rather too effusive in his relations with
the fair sex.  One of his weaknesses was _kissing_.  He would kiss
everybody who was young or good-looking.  His maxim was "Kiss early and
kiss often."  Who can forget his _systematic_ method of greeting the
engaging Arabella?  "He (1) took off his spectacles, (2) in great haste,
and (3) taking both the young lady's hands in his (4) kissed her (5) a
great many times (6) perhaps a greater number of times than was
absolutely necessary."  Old rogue!  I have little doubt that on his
return home from his tours he encircled the buxom figure of Mrs.
Bardell--all of course in his own paternal and privileged way.

It should be borne in mind also that Mr. Pickwick was almost invariably
drawn into his more serious scrapes and embarrassments by this devotion
to the sex.  The night in the boarding school garden--the affair with the
spinster lady--his interview with Arabella from the top of the wall--his
devotion to Mrs. Pott and Mrs. Dowler--and much more that we do not hear
of, show that he was a gallant elderly gentleman.  Oh, he was a "sly dog,
he was."

There is a curious burst of Mr. Pickwick's which seems to hint at a sort
of tender appreciation on his side.  When the notice of trial was sent to
him, in his first vehemence, he broke out that Mrs. Bardell had nothing
to do with the business, "_She hadn't the heart to do it_."  Mr. Pickwick
could not speak with this certainty, unless he knew the lady's feelings
pretty well.  _Why_ hadn't she the heart to do it?  Because she was
sincerely attached to him and his interests and was "a dear creature."
This, however, was a fond delusion of the worthy gentleman's.  Persons of
her class are not quite so disinterested as they appear to be, especially
if they have to interpret the various paternal and comforting advances
made to them by their well to do lodgers.

There is another factor which can hardly be left out, when considering
Mr. Pickwick's responsibility--that is, his too frequent indulgence in
liquor, and the insufficiency of his head to stand its influence.  Now
this was a very important day for him, the first time he was to set up a
man servant.  He had to break it to his landlady, who would naturally
resent the change.  He may have been _priming_ himself with some of those
perpetual glasses of brandy and water to which he was addicted, and who
knows but that, in his ardour to propitiate, he may have gone a _little_
too far?  This fact too, of the introducing a man servant into her
establishment, Mrs. Bardell may have indistinctly associated with a
general change in his life.  If she were to become Mrs. Pickwick her
duties might be naturally expected to devolve on a male assistant.

Next morning he and his friends quitted London on their travels to
Eatanswill in pursuit of adventure.  He airily dismissed the matter.  We
may wonder whether he made any remonstrance to his landlady before his
departure.  Probably he did not, fancying that she had been merely in a
slight fit of the "tantrums."

At Bury, however, after the boarding-school adventure, he was to be
painfully awakened.  He was sitting with his friends after dinner at the
"Angel," in his happiest mood.  Winkle had related his quarrel with Pott
_in re_ Mrs. Pott, in a humorous fashion when one of the most delightful
of humorous scenes followed.

Mr. Pickwick was proceeding with his scathing rebuke, when Sam enters
with a letter.

    'I don't 