 place in that"--here he
brought down his palm with a mighty slap on the desk, and added, after a
moment's pause, "_Box_ before you."  It was that _preceding_ of the
stroke that told.  So real was it, one fancied oneself listening to some
obstreperous counsel.  In all true acting--notably on the French
boards--the gesture should a little precede the utterance.  So the
serjeant knew something of art.

When Mr. Pickwick gave an indignant start on hearing himself described as
a heartless villain how cleverly does the capable Buzfuz turn the
incident to profit.

                   [Picture: Mr. Pickwick as a Monster]

    'I say systematic villany, gentlemen,' said Serjeant Buzfuz, looking
    through Mr. Pickwick, and talking _at_ him; 'and when I say
    systematic villiany, let me tell the defendant, Pickwick, if he be in
    court, as I am informed he is, that it would have been more decent in
    him, more becoming, in better judgment and in better taste, if he had
    stopped away.  Let me tell him, gentlemen, that any gestures of
    dissent or disapprobation in which he may indulge in this court will
    not go down with you; that you will know how to value, and to
    appreciate them; and let me tell him further, as my lord will tell
    you, gentlemen, that a counsel, in the discharge of his duty to his
    client, is neither to be intimidated nor bullied, nor put down; and
    that any attempt to do either the one or the other, or the first or
    the last, will recoil on the head of the attempter, be he plaintiff
    or be he defendant, be his name Pickwick, or Noakes, or Stoakes, or
    Stiles, or Brown, or Thompson.'

    This little divergence from the subject in hand, had of course the
    intended effect of turning all eyes to Mr. Pickwick.

We relish, too, another "common form."  When the Serjeant found that his
jest as to "greasing the wheels of Mr. Pickwick's slow-coach" had
somewhat missed fire--a thing that often unaccountably happens, in the
case of the "twelve intelligent men," the Serjeant knew how to adroitly
recover himself.

    He paused in this place to see whether the jury smiled at his joke;
    but as nobody took it but the greengrocer, whose sensitiveness on the
    subject was very probably occasioned by his having subjected a
    chaise-cart to the process in question on that identical morning, the
    learned Serjeant considered it advisable to undergo a slight relapse
    into the dismals before he concluded.

    'But enough of this, gentlemen,' said Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz, 'it is
    difficult to smile with an aching heart; it is ill jesting when our
    deepest sympathies are awakened.  My client's hopes and prospects are
    ruined, and it is no figure of speech to say that her occupation is
    gone indeed.  The bill is down--but there is no tenant.  Eligible
    single gentlemen pass and repass--but there is no invitation for them
    to enquire within or without.  All is gloom and silence in the house;
    even the voice of the child is hushed; his infant sports are
    disregarded when his mother weeps; his "alley tors" and his
    "commoneys" are alike neglected; he forgets the long familiar cry of
    "knuckle down," and at tip-cheese, or odd and even, his hand is out.
    But Pickwick, gentlemen, Pickwick, the ruthless destroyer of this
    domestic oasis in the desert of Goswell Street--Pickwick, who has
    choked up the well, and thrown ashes on the sward--Pickwick, who
    comes before you to-day with his heartless tomato sauce and
    warming-pans--Pickwick still rears his head with unblushing
    effrontery, and gazes without a sigh on the ruin he has made.
    Damages, gentlemen--heavy damages is the only punishment with which
    you can visit him.'




THE INCRIMINATING LETTERS.


"I shall prove to you, gentlemen, that _about a year ago Pickwick
suddenly began to absent himself from home_, during long intervals, ('on
Pickwick Tours,') _as if with the intention of breaking off from my
client_: but I shall show you also that his resolutions were not at that
time sufficiently strong, or that his better feelings conquered, _if
better feelings he has_: or that the charms and accomplishments of my
client prevailed against his unmanly intentions."  We may note the
reserve which suggested a struggle going on in Mr. Pickwick.  And how
persuasive is Buzfuz's _exegesis_!  Then, on the letters:

"These letters bespeak the character of the man.  They are not open,
fervid, eloquent epistles breathing nothing but the language of
affectionate attachment.  They are _covert_, _sly_, under-hand
communications, but, fortunately, far more conclusive than if couched in
the most glowing language.  _Letters that must be viewed with a cautious
and supicious eye_: _letters that were evidently intended at the time_,
_by Pickwick_, _to mislead and delude any third parties into whose hands
they might fall_."  The gravity and persuasiveness of all this is really
_impayable_.  "Let me read the first: 'Garraway's, twelve o'clock.  Dear
Mrs. B., Chops and tomato sauce.  Yours, Pickwick.'  Gentlemen, what do