is house, whispering
through chinks and crevices, as if there was that between him and you,
which neither durst so much as speak aloud of? Who is he?'

'You do well to say he haunts this house,' returned the widow, faintly.
'His shadow has been upon it and me, in light and darkness, at noonday
and midnight. And now, at last, he has come in the body!'

'But he wouldn't have gone in the body,' returned the locksmith with
some irritation, 'if you had left my arms and legs at liberty. What
riddle is this?'

'It is one,' she answered, rising as she spoke, 'that must remain for
ever as it is. I dare not say more than that.'

'Dare not!' repeated the wondering locksmith.

'Do not press me,' she replied. 'I am sick and faint, and every faculty
of life seems dead within me.--No!--Do not touch me, either.'

Gabriel, who had stepped forward to render her assistance, fell back as
she made this hasty exclamation, and regarded her in silent wonder.

'Let me go my way alone,' she said in a low voice, 'and let the hands of
no honest man touch mine to-night.' When she had tottered to the door,
she turned, and added with a stronger effort, 'This is a secret, which,
of necessity, I trust to you. You are a true man. As you have ever been
good and kind to me,--keep it. If any noise was heard above, make some
excuse--say anything but what you really saw, and never let a word or
look between us, recall this circumstance. I trust to you. Mind, I trust
to you. How much I trust, you never can conceive.'

Casting her eyes upon him for an instant, she withdrew, and left him
there alone.

Gabriel, not knowing what to think, stood staring at the door with a
countenance full of surprise and dismay. The more he pondered on
what had passed, the less able he was to give it any favourable
interpretation. To find this widow woman, whose life for so many years
had been supposed to be one of solitude and retirement, and who, in her
quiet suffering character, had gained the good opinion and respect of
all who knew her--to find her linked mysteriously with an ill-omened
man, alarmed at his appearance, and yet favouring his escape, was a
discovery that pained as much as startled him. Her reliance on his
secrecy, and his tacit acquiescence, increased his distress of mind. If
he had spoken boldly, persisted in questioning her, detained her
when she rose to leave the room, made any kind of protest, instead of
silently compromising himself, as he felt he had done, he would have
been more at ease.

'Why did I let her say it was a secret, and she trusted it to me!' said
Gabriel, putting his wig on one side to scratch his head with greater
ease, and looking ruefully at the fire. 'I have no more readiness than
old John himself. Why didn't I say firmly, "You have no right to such
secrets, and I demand of you to tell me what this means," instead of
standing gaping at her, like an old moon-calf as I am! But there's my
weakness. I can be obstinate enough with men if need be, but women may
twist me round their fingers at their pleasure.'

He took his wig off outright as he made this reflection, and, warming
his handkerchief at the fire began to rub and polish his bald head with
it, until it glistened again.

'And yet,' said the locksmith, softening under this soothing process,
and stopping to smile, 'it MAY be nothing. Any drunken brawler trying to
make his way into the house, would have alarmed a quiet soul like her.
But then'--and here was the vexation--'how came it to be that man; how
comes he to have this influence over her; how came she to favour his
getting away from me; and, more than all, how came she not to say it
was a sudden fright, and nothing more? It's a sad thing to have, in one
minute, reason to mistrust a person I have known so long, and an old
sweetheart into the bargain; but what else can I do, with all this upon
my mind!--Is that Barnaby outside there?'

'Ay!' he cried, looking in and nodding. 'Sure enough it's Barnaby--how
did you guess?'

'By your shadow,' said the locksmith.

'Oho!' cried Barnaby, glancing over his shoulder, 'He's a merry fellow,
that shadow, and keeps close to me, though I AM silly. We have such
pranks, such walks, such runs, such gambols on the grass! Sometimes
he'll be half as tall as a church steeple, and sometimes no bigger
than a dwarf. Now, he goes on before, and now behind, and anon he'll
be stealing on, on this side, or on that, stopping whenever I stop, and
thinking I can't see him, though I have my eye on him sharp enough. Oh!
he's a merry fellow. Tell me--is he silly too? I think he is.'

'Why?' asked Gabriel.

'Because he never tires of mocking me, but does it all day long.--Why
don't you come?'

'Where?'

'Upstairs. He wants you. Stay--where's HIS shadow? Come. You're a wise
man; tell me that.'

'Beside him, Barnaby; beside him, I suppose,' returned the locksmith.

'No!' he replied, shaking his head. 'Guess again.'

'Gone out a walking, maybe?'

'He has changed shadows with a woman,' the idiot whispered in his ear,
and then fell back with a look of triumph. 'Her shadow's always with
him, and his with her. That's sport I thin