eration in his dress: while
    the slovenly style of the remainder of his costume warranted the
    inference that his personal appearance would not have been very much
    improved if he had.  Books of practice, heaps of papers, and opened
    letters, were scattered over the table, without any attempt at order
    or arrangement; the furniture of the room was old and ricketty; the
    doors of the bookcase were rotting in their hinges; the dust flew out
    from the carpet in little clouds at every step; the blinds were
    yellow with age and dirt; the state of everything in the room showed,
    with a clearness not to be mistaken, that Mr. Serjeant Snubbin was
    far too much occupied with his professional pursuits to take any
    great heed or regard of his personal comforts.

It was a characteristic feature of the slowness of legal process in those
days that though the notice of action was sent on August the 28th, 1827,
the case was not ripe for trial until February 14th of the next
year--nearly six months having elapsed.  It is difficult to speculate as
to what this long delay was owing.  There were only two witnesses whose
evidence had to be briefed--Mrs. Cluppins and Mrs. Sanders--and they were
at hand.  It is odd, by the way, that they did not think of examining
little Tommy Bardell, the only one who actually witnessed the proceeding.
True, he was of tender years--about eight or ten--and the son of the
Plaintiff, but he must have "known the nature of an oath."




THE TRIAL.


At last the momentous morning came round.  It was the fourteenth of
February, Valentine's Day, 1828--one not of good omen for the Plaintiff.
{26}  The Defendant's party was rather gloomy at breakfast, when Perker,
by wave of encouraging his client, uttered some _dicta_ as to the chances
of the Jury having had a good breakfast "Discontented or hungry jurymen,
my dear Sir, always find for the Plaintiff."  "Bless my heart," said Mr.
Pickwick, looking very blank, "What do they do that for!"

The party then got into hackney coaches and was driven to the Guildhall,
where the case was to be tried at ten o'clock precisely.

       [Picture: Exterior of the Guildhall Court.--Now City Museum]

    [Picture: Interior of the Guildhall, Court, circa 1830.  (From an
                     original drawing by T. Allen.)]

How dramatic Boz has made the "calling of the Jury," which might be
thought an uninteresting and prosaic operation enough.  It was a special
jury, which entailed one guinea per head extra expense on Mr. Pickwick.
He had, of course, asked for it: but Dodson and Fogg would have been well
content with and perhaps even have preferred a common jury.  Now-a-days,
special jurors, though summoned largely, have to be almost coerced into
attending.  A fine of ten pounds is imposed, but this is almost
invariably remitted on affidavit.  The common jurors, moreover, do not
show the reluctance to "serve" of Groffin, the chemist.  A guinea is not
to be despised.  There are, as it were, professional common jurors who
hang about the Courts in the hope of being thus called as "understudies."
On this occasion what was called a _Tales_ was prayed for, and two common
jurors were pressed into the service: and "a greengrocer and a chemist
were caught directly."

It is impossible to say too much of the completeness with which the legal
scene is put forward.  Everything is dealt with.  We have perfect
sketches of the judge, the ushers, the jury, the counsel on the case, the
witnesses, the barristers, the attorneys; we have the speeches, the
methods of examination and cross-examination.

There is nothing better or more life-like than the sketch of the court in
the chill morning, and before the actors came on the scene--the
inimitable description of the idle barristers hanging about "the Bar of
England," which is accurate to this hour.

Few could describe effectively the peculiar appearance of a crowd of
barristers assembled in a Court of Law.  They are a type apart, and their
odd headgear accentuates all the peculiarities of their faces.  No one
has, however, succeeded so well as Boz in touching off their
peculiarities.  This sort of histrionic guise and bearing is assumed with
a view to impose on his friends and the public, to suggest an idea that
they have much or at least something to do.

    'And that,' said Mr. Pickwick, pointing to a couple of enclosed seats
    on his right, 'that's where the jurymen sit, is it not?'

    'The identical place, my dear Sir,' replied Perker, tapping the lid
    of his snuff-box.

    Mr. Pickwick stood up in a state of great agitation and took a glance
    at the court.  There were already a pretty large sprinkling of
    spectators in the gallery, and a numerous muster of gentlemen in wigs
    in the barristers' seats, who presented, as a body, all that pleasing
    and extensive variety of nose and whisker for which the bar of
    England is so justly celebrated.  Such of the gentlemen as had got a
    brief to carry, carried it in as conspicuous a manner as possible,
    and occasionally scratched their noses therewith, to