d array, their roars and
shouts would be heard by the members inside; with a great deal more to
the same purpose, all of which Hugh received with manifest delight.

He told him, too, who some of the Lords and Commons were, by name,
as they came in and out; whether they were friendly to the Papists or
otherwise; and bade him take notice of their liveries and equipages,
that he might be sure of them, in case of need. Sometimes he drew
him close to the windows of a passing carriage, that he might see its
master's face by the light of the lamps; and, both in respect of people
and localities, he showed so much acquaintance with everything around,
that it was plain he had often studied there before; as indeed, when
they grew a little more confidential, he confessed he had.

Perhaps the most striking part of all this was, the number of
people--never in groups of more than two or three together--who seemed
to be skulking about the crowd for the same purpose. To the greater part
of these, a slight nod or a look from Hugh's companion was sufficient
greeting; but, now and then, some man would come and stand beside him
in the throng, and, without turning his head or appearing to communicate
with him, would say a word or two in a low voice, which he would answer
in the same cautious manner. Then they would part, like strangers. Some
of these men often reappeared again unexpectedly in the crowd close to
Hugh, and, as they passed by, pressed his hand, or looked him sternly in
the face; but they never spoke to him, nor he to them; no, not a word.

It was remarkable, too, that whenever they happened to stand where there
was any press of people, and Hugh chanced to be looking downward, he
was sure to see an arm stretched out--under his own perhaps, or perhaps
across him--which thrust some paper into the hand or pocket of a
bystander, and was so suddenly withdrawn that it was impossible to tell
from whom it came; nor could he see in any face, on glancing quickly
round, the least confusion or surprise. They often trod upon a paper
like the one he carried in his breast, but his companion whispered him
not to touch it or to take it up,--not even to look towards it,--so
there they let them lie, and passed on.

When they had paraded the street and all the avenues of the building in
this manner for near two hours, they turned away, and his friend asked
him what he thought of what he had seen, and whether he was prepared
for a good hot piece of work if it should come to that. The hotter the
better,' said Hugh, 'I'm prepared for anything.'--'So am I,' said his
friend, 'and so are many of us; and they shook hands upon it with a
great oath, and with many terrible imprecations on the Papists.

As they were thirsty by this time, Dennis proposed that they should
repair together to The Boot, where there was good company and strong
liquor. Hugh yielding a ready assent, they bent their steps that way
with no loss of time.

This Boot was a lone house of public entertainment, situated in the
fields at the back of the Foundling Hospital; a very solitary spot at
that period, and quite deserted after dark. The tavern stood at some
distance from any high road, and was approachable only by a dark and
narrow lane; so that Hugh was much surprised to find several people
drinking there, and great merriment going on. He was still more
surprised to find among them almost every face that had caught his
attention in the crowd; but his companion having whispered him outside
the door, that it was not considered good manners at The Boot to appear
at all curious about the company, he kept his own counsel, and made no
show of recognition.

Before putting his lips to the liquor which was brought for them, Dennis
drank in a loud voice the health of Lord George Gordon, President of the
Great Protestant Association; which toast Hugh pledged likewise, with
corresponding enthusiasm. A fiddler who was present, and who appeared
to act as the appointed minstrel of the company, forthwith struck up a
Scotch reel; and that in tones so invigorating, that Hugh and his friend
(who had both been drinking before) rose from their seats as by previous
concert, and, to the great admiration of the assembled guests, performed
an extemporaneous No-Popery Dance.



Chapter 39


The applause which the performance of Hugh and his new friend elicited
from the company at The Boot, had not yet subsided, and the two dancers
were still panting from their exertions, which had been of a rather
extreme and violent character, when the party was reinforced by the
arrival of some more guests, who, being a detachment of United Bulldogs,
were received with very flattering marks of distinction and respect.

The leader of this small party--for, including himself, they were but
three in number--was our old acquaintance, Mr Tappertit, who seemed,
physically speaking, to have grown smaller with years (particularly as
to his legs, which were stupendously little), but who, in a moral point
of view, in personal dignity and self-esteem, had swelled into a giant.
Nor was it by any means difficult for the most unobservant perso