d or bad. The lady too, was much amused with him; and the closing
point of his obstinacy so delighted her husband that he burst into a
roar of laughter, and demanded his price.

Barnaby looked as though he didn't understand his meaning. Probably he
did not.

'His price,' said the gentleman, rattling the money in his pockets,
'what dost want for him? How much?'

'He's not to be sold,' replied Barnaby, shutting up the basket in a
great hurry, and throwing the strap over his shoulder. 'Mother, come
away.'

'Thou seest how much of an idiot he is, book-learner,' said the
gentleman, looking scornfully at his wife. 'He can make a bargain. What
dost want for him, old woman?'

'He is my son's constant companion,' said the widow. 'He is not to be
sold, sir, indeed.'

'Not to be sold!' cried the gentleman, growing ten times redder,
hoarser, and louder than before. 'Not to be sold!'

'Indeed no,' she answered. 'We have never thought of parting with him,
sir, I do assure you.'

He was evidently about to make a very passionate retort, when a few
murmured words from his wife happening to catch his ear, he turned
sharply round, and said, 'Eh? What?'

'We can hardly expect them to sell the bird, against their own desire,'
she faltered. 'If they prefer to keep him--'

'Prefer to keep him!' he echoed. 'These people, who go tramping about
the country a-pilfering and vagabondising on all hands, prefer to keep
a bird, when a landed proprietor and a justice asks his price! That old
woman's been to school. I know she has. Don't tell me no,' he roared to
the widow, 'I say, yes.'

Barnaby's mother pleaded guilty to the accusation, and hoped there was
no harm in it.

'No harm!' said the gentleman. 'No. No harm. No harm, ye old rebel, not
a bit of harm. If my clerk was here, I'd set ye in the stocks, I would,
or lay ye in jail for prowling up and down, on the look-out for petty
larcenies, ye limb of a gipsy. Here, Simon, put these pilferers out,
shove 'em into the road, out with 'em! Ye don't want to sell the bird,
ye that come here to beg, don't ye? If they an't out in double-quick,
set the dogs upon 'em!'

They waited for no further dismissal, but fled precipitately, leaving
the gentleman to storm away by himself (for the poor lady had already
retreated), and making a great many vain attempts to silence Grip, who,
excited by the noise, drew corks enough for a city feast as they hurried
down the avenue, and appeared to congratulate himself beyond measure on
having been the cause of the disturbance. When they had nearly reached
the lodge, another servant, emerging from the shrubbery, feigned to
be very active in ordering them off, but this man put a crown into the
widow's hand, and whispering that his lady sent it, thrust them gently
from the gate.

This incident only suggested to the widow's mind, when they halted at
an alehouse some miles further on, and heard the justice's character
as given by his friends, that perhaps something more than capacity of
stomach and tastes for the kennel and the stable, were required to form
either a perfect country gentleman, a thoroughbred Englishman, or
a genuine John Bull; and that possibly the terms were sometimes
misappropriated, not to say disgraced. She little thought then, that a
circumstance so slight would ever influence their future fortunes; but
time and experience enlightened her in this respect.

'Mother,' said Barnaby, as they were sitting next day in a waggon which
was to take them within ten miles of the capital, 'we're going to London
first, you said. Shall we see that blind man there?'

She was about to answer 'Heaven forbid!' but checked herself, and told
him No, she thought not; why did he ask?

'He's a wise man,' said Barnaby, with a thoughtful countenance. 'I wish
that we may meet with him again. What was it that he said of crowds?
That gold was to be found where people crowded, and not among the
trees and in such quiet places? He spoke as if he loved it; London is a
crowded place; I think we shall meet him there.'

'But why do you desire to see him, love?' she asked.

'Because,' said Barnaby, looking wistfully at her, 'he talked to me
about gold, which is a rare thing, and say what you will, a thing
you would like to have, I know. And because he came and went away so
strangely--just as white-headed old men come sometimes to my bed's foot
in the night, and say what I can't remember when the bright day returns.
He told me he'd come back. I wonder why he broke his word!'

'But you never thought of being rich or gay, before, dear Barnaby. You
have always been contented.'

He laughed and bade her say that again, then cried, 'Ay ay--oh yes,' and
laughed once more. Then something passed that caught his fancy, and
the topic wandered from his mind, and was succeeded by another just as
fleeting.

But it was plain from what he had said, and from his returning to the
point more than once that day, and on the next, that the blind man's
visit, and indeed his words, had taken strong possession of his mind.
Whether the idea of wealth had occurred to him for the first time
on looking at the golden clouds that e