frock, whilst Caleb bent over
the opposite side of the table painting a doll's house.

"You were out in the rain last night in your beautiful new great-coat,"
said Bertha.

"Yes, in my beautiful new great-coat," answered Caleb, glancing to where
a roughly made garment of sack-cloth was hung up to dry.

"How glad I am you bought it, father."

"And of such a tailor! quite a fashionable tailor, a bright blue cloth,
with bright buttons; it's a deal too good a coat for me."

"Too good!" cried the blind girl, stopping to laugh and clap her
hands--"as if anything was too good for my handsome father, with his
smiling face, and black hair, and his straight figure."

Caleb began to sing a rollicking song.

"What, you are singing, are you?" growled a gruff voice, as Mr.
Tackleton put his head in at the door. "_I_ can't afford to sing, I hope
you can afford to work too. Hardly time for both, I should say."

"You don't see how the master is winking at me," whispered Caleb in his
daughter's ear--"such a joke, pretending to scold, you know."

The blind girl laughed and nodded, and taking Mr. Tackleton's reluctant
hand, kissed it gently. "What is the idiot doing?" grumbled the Toy
Merchant, pulling his hand roughly away.

"I am thanking you for the beautiful little tree," replied Bertha,
bringing forward a tiny rose-tree in blossom, which Caleb had made her
believe was her master's gift, though he himself had gone without a meal
or two to buy it.

"Here's Bedlam broke loose. What does the idiot mean?" snarled Mr.
Tackleton; and giving Caleb some rough orders, he departed without the
politeness of a farewell.

"If you could only have seen him winking at me all the time, pretending
to be so rough to escape thanking," exclaimed Caleb, when the door was
shut.

Now a very sad and curious thing had happened. Caleb, in his love for
Bertha, had so successfully deceived her as to the real character of Mr.
Tackleton, that she had fallen in love, not with her master, but with
what she imagined him to be, and was happy in an innocent belief in his
affection for her; but one day she accidently heard he was going to be
married, and could not hide from her father the pain and bewilderment
she felt at the news.

"Bertha, my dear," said Caleb at length, "I have a confession to make to
you; hear me kindly though I have been cruel to you." "You cruel to me!"
cried Bertha, turning her sightless face towards him. "Not meaning it,
my child! and I never suspected it till the other day. I have concealed
things from you which would have given pain, I have invented things to
please you, and have surrounded you with fancies."

"But living people are not fancies, father, you cannot change them."

"I have done so, my child, God forgive me! Bertha, the man who is
married to-day is a hard master to us both, ugly in his looks and in his
nature, and hard and heartless as he can be."

"Oh heavens! how blind I have been, how could you father, and I so
helpless!" Poor Caleb hung his head.

"Answer me father," said Bertha. "What is my home like?"

"A poor place, Bertha, a very poor and bare place! indeed as little able
to keep out wind and weather as my sackcloth coat."

"And the presents that I took such care of, that came at my wish, and
were so dearly welcome?" Caleb did not answer.

"I see, I understand," said Bertha, "and now I am looking at you, at my
kind, loving compassionate father, tell me what is he like?"

"An old man, my child, thin, bent, grey-haired, worn-out with hard work
and sorrow, a weak, foolish, deceitful old man."

The blind girl threw herself on her knees before him, and took his grey
head in her arms. "It is my sight, it is my sight restored," she cried.
"I have been blind, but now I see, I have never till now truly seen my
father. Father, there is not a grey hair on your head that shall be
forgotten in my prayers and thanks to Heaven."

"My Bertha!" sobbed Caleb, "and the brisk smart father in the blue
coat--he's gone, my child."

"Dearest father, no, he's not gone, nothing is gone. I have been happy
and contented, but I shall be happier and more contented still, now that
I know what you are. I am _not_ blind, father, any longer."




LITTLE NELL.


The house was one of those receptacles for old and curious things, which
seem to crouch in odd corners of the town; and in the old, dark, murky
rooms, there lived alone together an old man and a child--his
grandchild, little Nell. Solitary and monotonous as was her life, the
innocent and cheerful spirit of the child found happiness in all things,
and through the dim rooms of the old curiosity shop little Nell went
singing, moving with gay and lightsome step.

But gradually over the old man, to whom she was so tenderly attached,
there stole a sad change. He became thoughtful, dejected, and wretched.
He had no sleep or rest but that which he took by day in his easy chair;
for every night, and all night long, he was away from home.

At last a raging fever seized him, and as he lay delirious or insensible
through many weeks, Nell learned that the house which sheltered them was
theirs no longer; that in the fut