t by some mysterious means, thrust back her hair,
stared wildly at Mr Tappertit, cried, 'My Simmuns's life is not a
wictim!' and dropped into his arms with such promptitude that he
staggered and reeled some paces back, beneath his lovely burden.

'Oh bother!' said Mr Tappertit. 'Here. Catch hold of her, somebody. Lock
her up again; she never ought to have been let out.'

'My Simmun!' cried Miss Miggs, in tears, and faintly. 'My for ever, ever
blessed Simmun!'

'Hold up, will you,' said Mr Tappertit, in a very unresponsive tone,
'I'll let you fall if you don't. What are you sliding your feet off the
ground for?'

'My angel Simmuns!' murmured Miggs--'he promised--'

'Promised! Well, and I'll keep my promise,' answered Simon, testily. 'I
mean to provide for you, don't I? Stand up!'

'Where am I to go? What is to become of me after my actions of this
night!' cried Miggs. 'What resting-places now remains but in the silent
tombses!'

'I wish you was in the silent tombses, I do,' cried Mr Tappertit, 'and
boxed up tight, in a good strong one. Here,' he cried to one of the
bystanders, in whose ear he whispered for a moment: 'Take her off, will
you. You understand where?'

The fellow nodded; and taking her in his arms, notwithstanding her
broken protestations, and her struggles (which latter species of
opposition, involving scratches, was much more difficult of resistance),
carried her away. They who were in the house poured out into the street;
the locksmith was taken to the head of the crowd, and required to walk
between his two conductors; the whole body was put in rapid motion;
and without any shouts or noise they bore down straight on Newgate, and
halted in a dense mass before the prison-gate.



Chapter 64


Breaking the silence they had hitherto preserved, they raised a great
cry as soon as they were ranged before the jail, and demanded to speak
to the governor. This visit was not wholly unexpected, for his house,
which fronted the street, was strongly barricaded, the wicket-gate of
the prison was closed up, and at no loophole or grating was any person
to be seen. Before they had repeated their summons many times, a man
appeared upon the roof of the governor's house, and asked what it was
they wanted.

Some said one thing, some another, and some only groaned and hissed. It
being now nearly dark, and the house high, many persons in the throng
were not aware that any one had come to answer them, and continued their
clamour until the intelligence was gradually diffused through the whole
concourse. Ten minutes or more elapsed before any one voice could be
heard with tolerable distinctness; during which interval the figure
remained perched alone, against the summer-evening sky, looking down
into the troubled street.

'Are you,' said Hugh at length, 'Mr Akerman, the head jailer here?'

'Of course he is, brother,' whispered Dennis. But Hugh, without minding
him, took his answer from the man himself.

'Yes,' he said. 'I am.'

'You have got some friends of ours in your custody, master.'

'I have a good many people in my custody.' He glanced downward, as
he spoke, into the jail: and the feeling that he could see into the
different yards, and that he overlooked everything which was hidden from
their view by the rugged walls, so lashed and goaded the mob, that they
howled like wolves.

'Deliver up our friends,' said Hugh, 'and you may keep the rest.'

'It's my duty to keep them all. I shall do my duty.'

'If you don't throw the doors open, we shall break 'em down,' said Hugh;
'for we will have the rioters out.'

'All I can do, good people,' Akerman replied, 'is to exhort you to
disperse; and to remind you that the consequences of any disturbance in
this place, will be very severe, and bitterly repented by most of you,
when it is too late.'

He made as though he would retire when he said these words, but he was
checked by the voice of the locksmith.

'Mr Akerman,' cried Gabriel, 'Mr Akerman.'

'I will hear no more from any of you,' replied the governor, turning
towards the speaker, and waving his hand.

'But I am not one of them,' said Gabriel. 'I am an honest man, Mr
Akerman; a respectable tradesman--Gabriel Varden, the locksmith. You
know me?'

'You among the crowd!' cried the governor in an altered voice.

'Brought here by force--brought here to pick the lock of the great door
for them,' rejoined the locksmith. 'Bear witness for me, Mr Akerman,
that I refuse to do it; and that I will not do it, come what may of my
refusal. If any violence is done to me, please to remember this.'

'Is there no way of helping you?' said the governor.

'None, Mr Akerman. You'll do your duty, and I'll do mine. Once again,
you robbers and cut-throats,' said the locksmith, turning round upon
them, 'I refuse. Ah! Howl till you're hoarse. I refuse.'

'Stay--stay!' said the jailer, hastily. 'Mr Varden, I know you for
a worthy man, and one who would do no unlawful act except upon
compulsion--'

'Upon compulsion, sir,' interposed the locksmith, who felt that the tone
in which this was said, conveyed the speaker's impression that he had
ample excuse for yielding to 