rborne,
however, by his brother and his nephew--concerning whom he renews his
protestations that he never could have thought they would have been
half so glad to see him--he is taken home to an elegant house in all
the arrangements of which there is to be observed a pleasant mixture
of the originally simple habits of the father and mother with such as
are suited to their altered station and the higher fortunes of their
children. Here Mr. George is much dismayed by the graces and
accomplishments of his nieces that are and by the beauty of Rosa, his
niece that is to be, and by the affectionate salutations of these
young ladies, which he receives in a sort of dream. He is sorely
taken aback, too, by the dutiful behaviour of his nephew and has a
woeful consciousness upon him of being a scapegrace. However, there
is great rejoicing and a very hearty company and infinite enjoyment,
and Mr. George comes bluff and martial through it all, and his pledge
to be present at the marriage and give away the bride is received
with universal favour. A whirling head has Mr. George that night when
he lies down in the state-bed of his brother's house to think of all
these things and to see the images of his nieces (awful all the
evening in their floating muslins) waltzing, after the German manner,
over his counterpane.

The brothers are closeted next morning in the ironmaster's room,
where the elder is proceeding, in his clear sensible way, to show how
he thinks he may best dispose of George in his business, when George
squeezes his hand and stops him.

"Brother, I thank you a million times for your more than brotherly
welcome, and a million times more to that for your more than
brotherly intentions. But my plans are made. Before I say a word as
to them, I wish to consult you upon one family point. How," says the
trooper, folding his arms and looking with indomitable firmness at
his brother, "how is my mother to be got to scratch me?"

"I am not sure that I understand you, George," replies the
ironmaster.

"I say, brother, how is my mother to be got to scratch me? She must
be got to do it somehow."

"Scratch you out of her will, I think you mean?"

"Of course I do. In short," says the trooper, folding his arms more
resolutely yet, "I mean--TO--scratch me!"

"My dear George," returns his brother, "is it so indispensable that
you should undergo that process?"

"Quite! Absolutely! I couldn't be guilty of the meanness of coming
back without it. I should never be safe not to be off again. I have
not sneaked home to rob your children, if not yourself, brother, of
your rights. I, who forfeited mine long ago! If I am to remain and
hold up my head, I must be scratched. Come. You are a man of
celebrated penetration and intelligence, and you can tell me how it's
to be brought about."

"I can tell you, George," replies the ironmaster deliberately, "how
it is not to be brought about, which I hope may answer the purpose as
well. Look at our mother, think of her, recall her emotion when she
recovered you. Do you believe there is a consideration in the world
that would induce her to take such a step against her favourite son?
Do you believe there is any chance of her consent, to balance against
the outrage it would be to her (loving dear old lady!) to propose it?
If you do, you are wrong. No, George! You must make up your mind to
remain UNscratched, I think." There is an amused smile on the
ironmaster's face as he watches his brother, who is pondering, deeply
disappointed. "I think you may manage almost as well as if the thing
were done, though."

"How, brother?"

"Being bent upon it, you can dispose by will of anything you have the
misfortune to inherit in any way you like, you know."

"That's true!" says the trooper, pondering again. Then he wistfully
asks, with his hand on his brother's, "Would you mind mentioning
that, brother, to your wife and family?"

"Not at all."

"Thank you. You wouldn't object to say, perhaps, that although an
undoubted vagabond, I am a vagabond of the harum-scarum order, and
not of the mean sort?"

The ironmaster, repressing his amused smile, assents.

"Thank you. Thank you. It's a weight off my mind," says the trooper
with a heave of his chest as he unfolds his arms and puts a hand on
each leg, "though I had set my heart on being scratched, too!"

The brothers are very like each other, sitting face to face; but a
certain massive simplicity and absence of usage in the ways of the
world is all on the trooper's side.

"Well," he proceeds, throwing off his disappointment, "next and last,
those plans of mine. You have been so brotherly as to propose to me
to fall in here and take my place among the products of your
perseverance and sense. I thank you heartily. It's more than
brotherly, as I said before, and I thank you heartily for it,"
shaking him a long time by the hand. "But the truth is, brother, I am
a--I am a kind of a weed, and it's too late to plant me in a regular
garden."

"My dear George," returns the elder, concentrating his strong steady
brow upon him and smiling confidently, "leave that to me, and let me
try."

George shak