ying beneath his chin, the strings which he
    always had attached to that article of dress.  It was at this moment
    that the absurdity of his recent bewilderment struck upon his mind;
    and throwing himself back in the rush-bottomed chair, Mr. Pickwick
    laughed to himself so heartily, that it would have been quite
    delightful to any man of well-constituted mind to have watched the
    smiles which expanded his amiable features, as they shone forth, from
    beneath the night-cap.

    'It is the best idea,' said Mr. Pickwick to himself, smiling till he
    almost cracked the night-cap strings--'It is the best idea, my losing
    myself in this place, and wandering about those staircases, that I
    ever heard of.  Droll, droll, very droll.'  Here Mr. Pickwick smiled
    again, a broader smile than before, and was about to continue the
    process of undressing, in the best possible humour, when he was
    suddenly stopped by a most unexpected interruption; to wit, the
    entrance into the room of some person with a candle, who, after
    locking the door, advanced to the dressing table, and set down the
    light upon it.

    The smile that played upon Mr. Pickwick's features, was
    instantaneously lost in a look of the most unbounded and
    wonder-stricken surprise.  The person, whoever it was, had come so
    suddenly and with so little noise, that Mr. Pickwick had had no time
    to call out, or oppose their entrance.  Who could it be?  A robber?
    Some evil-minded person who had seen him come upstairs with a
    handsome watch in his hand, perhaps.  What was he to do!

    The only way in which Mr. Pickwick could catch a glimpse of his
    mysterious visitor with the least danger of being seen himself, was
    by creeping on to the bed, and peeping out from between the curtains
    on the opposite side.  Keeping the curtains carefully closed with his
    hand, so that nothing more of him could be seen than his face and
    nightcap, and putting on his spectacles, he mustered up courage, and
    looked out.

    Mr. Pickwick almost fainted with horror and dismay.  Standing before
    the dressing glass, was a middle-aged lady in yellow curl-papers,
    busily engaged in brushing what ladies call their "back hair."
    However the unconscious middle-aged lady came into that room, it was
    quite clear that she contemplated remaining there for the night; for
    she had brought a rushlight and shade with her, which with
    praiseworthy precaution against fire, she had stationed in a basin on
    the floor, where it was glimmering away, like a gigantic lighthouse,
    in a particularly small piece of water.

    'Bless my soul,' thought Mr. Pickwick, 'what a dreadful thing!'

    'Hem!' said the lady; and in went Mr. Pickwick's head with
    automaton-like rapidity.

    'I never met with anything so awful as this,'--thought poor Mr.
    Pickwick, the cold perspiration starting in drops upon his nightcap.
    'Never.  This is fearful.'

    It was quite impossible to resist the urgent desire to see what was
    going forward.  So out went Mr. Pickwick's head again.  The prospect
    was worse than before.  The middle-aged lady had finished arranging
    her hair; had carefully enveloped it, in a muslin nightcap with a
    small plaited border, and was gazing pensively on the fire.

    'This matter is growing alarming'--reasoned Mr. Pickwick with
    himself.  'I can't allow things to go on in this way.  By the
    self-possession of that lady, it's clear to me that I must have come
    into the wrong room.  If I call out, she'll alarm the house, but if I
    remain here, the consequences will be still more frightful.'

        [Picture: The Double Bedded Room, Great White Horse, Ipswich]

    Mr. Pickwick, it is quite unnecessary to say, was one of the most
    modest and delicate-minded of mortals.  The very idea of exhibiting
    his nightcap to a lady, overpowered him, but he had tied those
    confounded strings in a knot, and do what he would, he couldn't get
    it off.  The disclosure must be made.  There was only one other way
    of doing it.  He shrunk behind the curtains, and called out very
    loudly--

    'Ha--hum.'

    That the lady started at this unexpected sound was evident, by her
    falling up against the rushlight shade; that she persuaded herself it
    must have been the effect of imagination was equally clear, for when
    Mr. Pickwick, under the impression that she had fainted away,
    stone-dead from fright, ventured to peep out again, she was gazing
    pensively on the fire as before.

    'Most extraordinary female this,' thought Mr. Pickwick, popping in
    again.  'Ha--hum.'

    These last sounds, so like those in which, as legends inform us, the
    ferocious giant Blunderbore was in the habit of expressing his
    opinion that it was time to lay the cloth, were too distinctly
    audible, to be again mistaken for the workings of fancy.

    'Gracious Heaven!' said the middle-aged lady, 'what's that!'

    'It's--it's--only a gentleman, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick fro