eat deal of pride, and said that he had been thinking of
improving it, and that he hoped the hammer and a little piece of broken
glass beside it ‘would play music before long.’  He had extracted some
colours from the yarn with which he worked, and painted a few poor
figures on the wall.  One, of a female, over the door, he called ‘The
Lady of the Lake.’

He smiled as I looked at these contrivances to while away the time; but
when I looked from them to him, I saw that his lip trembled, and could
have counted the beating of his heart.  I forget how it came about, but
some allusion was made to his having a wife.  He shook his head at the
word, turned aside, and covered his face with his hands.

‘But you are resigned now!’ said one of the gentlemen after a short
pause, during which he had resumed his former manner.  He answered with a
sigh that seemed quite reckless in its hopelessness, ‘Oh yes, oh yes!  I
am resigned to it.’  ‘And are a better man, you think?’  ‘Well, I hope
so: I’m sure I hope I may be.’  ‘And time goes pretty quickly?’  ‘Time is
very long gentlemen, within these four walls!’

He gazed about him—Heaven only knows how wearily!—as he said these words;
and in the act of doing so, fell into a strange stare as if he had
forgotten something.  A moment afterwards he sighed heavily, put on his
spectacles, and went about his work again.

In another cell, there was a German, sentenced to five years’
imprisonment for larceny, two of which had just expired.  With colours
procured in the same manner, he had painted every inch of the walls and
ceiling quite beautifully.  He had laid out the few feet of ground,
behind, with exquisite neatness, and had made a little bed in the centre,
that looked, by-the-bye, like a grave.  The taste and ingenuity he had
displayed in everything were most extraordinary; and yet a more dejected,
heart-broken, wretched creature, it would be difficult to imagine.  I
never saw such a picture of forlorn affliction and distress of mind.  My
heart bled for him; and when the tears ran down his cheeks, and he took
one of the visitors aside, to ask, with his trembling hands nervously
clutching at his coat to detain him, whether there was no hope of his
dismal sentence being commuted, the spectacle was really too painful to
witness.  I never saw or heard of any kind of misery that impressed me
more than the wretchedness of this man.

In a third cell, was a tall, strong black, a burglar, working at his
proper trade of making screws and the like.  His time was nearly out.  He
was not only a very dexterous thief, but was notorious for his boldness
and hardihood, and for the number of his previous convictions.  He
entertained us with a long account of his achievements, which he narrated
with such infinite relish, that he actually seemed to lick his lips as he
told us racy anecdotes of stolen plate, and of old ladies whom he had
watched as they sat at windows in silver spectacles (he had plainly had
an eye to their metal even from the other side of the street) and had
afterwards robbed.  This fellow, upon the slightest encouragement, would
have mingled with his professional recollections the most detestable
cant; but I am very much mistaken if he could have surpassed the
unmitigated hypocrisy with which he declared that he blessed the day on
which he came into that prison, and that he never would commit another
robbery as long as he lived.

There was one man who was allowed, as an indulgence, to keep rabbits.
His room having rather a close smell in consequence, they called to him
at the door to come out into the passage.  He complied of course, and
stood shading his haggard face in the unwonted sunlight of the great
window, looking as wan and unearthly as if he had been summoned from the
grave.  He had a white rabbit in his breast; and when the little
creature, getting down upon the ground, stole back into the cell, and he,
being dismissed, crept timidly after it, I thought it would have been
very hard to say in what respect the man was the nobler animal of the
two.

There was an English thief, who had been there but a few days out of
seven years: a villainous, low-browed, thin-lipped fellow, with a white
face; who had as yet no relish for visitors, and who, but for the
additional penalty, would have gladly stabbed me with his shoemaker’s
knife.  There was another German who had entered the jail but yesterday,
and who started from his bed when we looked in, and pleaded, in his
broken English, very hard for work.  There was a poet, who after doing
two days’ work in every four-and-twenty hours, one for himself and one
for the prison, wrote verses about ships (he was by trade a mariner), and
‘the maddening wine-cup,’ and his friends at home.  There were very many
of them.  Some reddened at the sight of visitors, and some turned very
pale.  Some two or three had prisoner nurses with them, for they were
very sick; and one, a fat old negro whose leg had been taken off within
the jail, had for his attendant a classical scholar and an accomplished
surgeon, himself a prisoner likewise.  Sitting upon the stairs, engage