ry, however, in the shape of a wardrobe of painted wood,
something smaller than an English watch-box; or if this comparison should
be insufficient to convey a just idea of its dimensions, they may be
estimated from the fact of my having lived for fourteen days and nights
in the firm belief that it was a shower-bath.




CHAPTER IV
AN AMERICAN RAILROAD.  LOWELL AND ITS FACTORY SYSTEM


BEFORE leaving Boston, I devoted one day to an excursion to Lowell.  I
assign a separate chapter to this visit; not because I am about to
describe it at any great length, but because I remember it as a thing by
itself, and am desirous that my readers should do the same.

I made acquaintance with an American railroad, on this occasion, for the
first time.  As these works are pretty much alike all through the States,
their general characteristics are easily described.

There are no first and second class carriages as with us; but there is a
gentleman’s car and a ladies’ car: the main distinction between which is
that in the first, everybody smokes; and in the second, nobody does.  As
a black man never travels with a white one, there is also a negro car;
which is a great, blundering, clumsy chest, such as Gulliver put to sea
in, from the kingdom of Brobdingnag.  There is a great deal of jolting, a
great deal of noise, a great deal of wall, not much window, a locomotive
engine, a shriek, and a bell.

The cars are like shabby omnibuses, but larger: holding thirty, forty,
fifty, people.  The seats, instead of stretching from end to end, are
placed crosswise.  Each seat holds two persons.  There is a long row of
them on each side of the caravan, a narrow passage up the middle, and a
door at both ends.  In the centre of the carriage there is usually a
stove, fed with charcoal or anthracite coal; which is for the most part
red-hot.  It is insufferably close; and you see the hot air fluttering
between yourself and any other object you may happen to look at, like the
ghost of smoke.

In the ladies’ car, there are a great many gentlemen who have ladies with
them.  There are also a great many ladies who have nobody with them: for
any lady may travel alone, from one end of the United States to the
other, and be certain of the most courteous and considerate treatment
everywhere.  The conductor or check-taker, or guard, or whatever he may
be, wears no uniform.  He walks up and down the car, and in and out of
it, as his fancy dictates; leans against the door with his hands in his
pockets and stares at you, if you chance to be a stranger; or enters into
conversation with the passengers about him.  A great many newspapers are
pulled out, and a few of them are read.  Everybody talks to you, or to
anybody else who hits his fancy.  If you are an Englishman, he expects
that that railroad is pretty much like an English railroad.  If you say
‘No,’ he says ‘Yes?’ (interrogatively), and asks in what respect they
differ.  You enumerate the heads of difference, one by one, and he says
‘Yes?’ (still interrogatively) to each.  Then he guesses that you don’t
travel faster in England; and on your replying that you do, says ‘Yes?’
again (still interrogatively), and it is quite evident, don’t believe it.
After a long pause he remarks, partly to you, and partly to the knob on
the top of his stick, that ‘Yankees are reckoned to be considerable of a
go-ahead people too;’ upon which _you_ say ‘Yes,’ and then _he_ says
‘Yes’ again (affirmatively this time); and upon your looking out of
window, tells you that behind that hill, and some three miles from the
next station, there is a clever town in a smart lo-ca-tion, where he
expects you have concluded to stop.  Your answer in the negative
naturally leads to more questions in reference to your intended route
(always pronounced rout); and wherever you are going, you invariably
learn that you can’t get there without immense difficulty and danger, and
that all the great sights are somewhere else.

If a lady take a fancy to any male passenger’s seat, the gentleman who
accompanies her gives him notice of the fact, and he immediately vacates
it with great politeness.  Politics are much discussed, so are banks, so
is cotton.  Quiet people avoid the question of the Presidency, for there
will be a new election in three years and a half, and party feeling runs
very high: the great constitutional feature of this institution being,
that directly the acrimony of the last election is over, the acrimony of
the next one begins; which is an unspeakable comfort to all strong
politicians and true lovers of their country: that is to say, to
ninety-nine men and boys out of every ninety-nine and a quarter.

Except when a branch road joins the main one, there is seldom more than
one track of rails; so that the road is very narrow, and the view, where
there is a deep cutting, by no means extensive.  When there is not, the
character of the scenery is always the same.  Mile after mile of stunted
trees: some hewn down by the axe, some blown down by the wind, some half
fallen and resting on their neighbours, many mere logs half hidden in the
swamp, others mouldere