 a few days Paul was able to get up and creep about the house. He
wondered sometimes why every one looked at and spoke so very kindly to
him, and was more than ever careful to do any little kindnesses he could
think of for them: even the rough, ugly dog Diogenes, who lived in the
yard, came in for a share of his attentions.

There was a party at Dr. Blimber's on the evening before the boys went
home. Paul sat in a corner of the sofa all the evening, and every one
was very kind to him indeed, it was quite extraordinary, Paul thought,
and he was very happy; he liked to see how pretty Florence was, and how
every one admired and wished to dance with her. After resting for a
night at Mrs. Pipchin's house, little Paul went home, and was carried
straight upstairs to his bed.

  [Illustration: LITTLE PAUL AND FLORENCE.
  A LITTLE CARRIAGE WAS GOT FOR HIM.]

He lay in his bed day after day quite happily and patiently, content
to watch and talk to Florence. He would tell her his dreams, and how he
always saw the sunlit ripples of a river rolling, rolling fast in front
of him; sometimes he seemed to be rocking in a little boat on the water,
and its motion lulled him to rest, and then he would be floating away,
away to that shore farther off, which he could not see. One day he told
Florence that the water was rippling brighter and faster than ever, and
that he could not see anything else.

"My own boy, cannot you see your poor father?" said Mr. Dombey, bending
over him.

"Oh yes, but don't be so sorry, dear papa. I am so happy,--good-bye,
dear papa." Presently he opened his eyes again, and said, "Floy, mamma
is like you, I can see her. Come close to me, Floy, and tell them,"
whispered the dying boy, "that the face of the picture of Christ on the
staircase at school is not divine enough; the light from it is shining
on me now, and the water is shining too, and rippling so fast, so fast."

The evening light shone into the room, but little Paul's spirit had gone
out on the rippling water, and the Divine Face was shining on him from
the farther shore.




THE RUNAWAY COUPLE.


"Supposing a young gentleman not eight years old was to run away with a
fine young woman of seven, would you consider that a queer start? That
there is a start as I--the boots at the Holly-Tree Inn--have seen with
my own eyes; and I cleaned the shoes they ran away in, and they was so
little that I couldn't get my hand into 'em.

  [Illustration: THE RUNAWAY COUPLE.]

"Master Harry Walmers's father, he lived at the Elms, away by Shooter's
Hill, six or seven miles from London. He was uncommon proud of Master
Harry, as was his only child; but he didn't spoil him neither. He was a
gentleman that had a will of his own, and an eye of his own, and that
would be minded. Consequently, though he made quite a companion of
the fine bright boy, still he kept the command over him, and the child
_was_ a child. I was under gardener there at that time I and one morning
Master Harry, he comes to me and says--

"'Cobbs, how should you spell Norah, if you were asked?' and he took out
his little knife and began cutting that name in print all over the
fence. The next day as it might be, he stops, along with Miss Norah,
where I was hoeing weeds in the gravel, and says, speaking up--

"'Cobbs, I like you! Why do I like you do you think, Cobbs? Because Norah
likes you.'

"'Indeed, sir,' says I. 'That's very gratifying.'

"'Gratifying, Cobbs?' says Master Harry. 'It's better than a million of
the brightest diamonds, to be liked by Norah. You're going away ain't
you, Cobbs? Then you shall be our head gardener when we're married.' And
he tucks her, in her little sky-blue mantle, under his arm, and walks
away.

"I was the boots at this identical Holly-Tree Inn when one summer
afternoon the coach drives up, and out of the coach gets these two
children. The young gentleman gets out; hands his lady out; gives the
guard something for himself; says to my governor, the landlord: 'We're
to stop here to-night, please. Sitting room and two bed-rooms will be
required. Mutton chops and cherry pudding for two!' and tucks her under
his arm, and walks into the house, much bolder than brass.

"I had seen 'em without their seeing me, and I gave the governor my
views of the expedition they was upon. 'Cobbs,' says the governor, 'if
this is so, I must set off myself and quiet their friends' minds. In
which case you must keep your eye upon 'em, and humor 'em, until I come
back. But before I take these measures, Cobbs, I should wish you to find
out from themselves whether your opinion is correct.'

"So I goes upstairs, and there I finds Master Harry on an e-nor-mous
sofa a-drying the eyes of Miss Norah with his pocket handkercher. Their
little legs was entirely off the ground, of course, and it really is not
possible to express how small them children looked. 'It's Cobbs! it's
Cobbs!' cries Master Harry, and he comes a-runing to me, and catching
hold of my hand. Miss Norah, she comes running to me on t'other side,
and catching hold of my t'other hand, and they both jump for joy. And
what I had took to be the case was