enly revealed as a Pecksniffian Lothario, and
his pretence of philanthrophy after was shewn in its true colours.  It
was impossible not to associate this with the scene with Mrs. Bardell.

But there was an important legal "point" which one might have expected
would have occurred to so eminent a Chamber Counsel as Serjeant Snubbin.
To prove a breach of the promise, it must always be shown that the
defendant had been given an opportunity of officially refusing to fulfil
it.  It should have been put to him "in black and white," "Will you marry
me?" and he must have answered "No, I will not," or something to that
effect.  In default of this the defendant might plead "True I gave the
promise and it stands unbroken, for you never required me to act upon
it."  Now in Mr. Pickwick's case this actually occurred.  As we have seen
he left town the morning after the imputed proposal and while he was
away, within a month, the notice of action was sent to him.  Up to that
time he had not heard a word of Dodson and Fogg, or of legal proceedings.
But it may be urged that Mrs. Bardell herself may have written,
formulating her demands.  That this was not the case is evident from Mr.
Pickwick's behaviour; he did not dream of such a thing, or he would have
been disturbed by it, or have consulted his friends about it.  Had it
been so, his high opinion of Mrs. Bardell would have been shattered.  For
did he not say on seeing Dodson and Fogg's letter, "She couldn't do it,
she hasn't the heart to do it."  The only thing that makes against this
theory is his reply to Peter Magnus who asked him "had he ever proposed?"
when he answered vehemently "Never," possibly recalling Mrs. Bardell.
She may however have written to him a pleading letter reminding him of
what he had said to her, declaring her deep-seated affection for him and
inviting him to carry out what he had offered.  Mr. Pickwick would have
replied in one of his amiable letters, couched in rather general terms,
perhaps calling her "my dear creature," but putting aside the whole
business: and there the matter probably dropped for a time.  I have
little doubt the good woman up to the last really believed that her
elderly lodger intended to make her an offer of his hand, and that on his
return from his travels he would resume the business.  Much elated by
this prospect, and most naturally too, she had told all her friends and
neighbours of her approaching advancement.  This Mrs. Sanders specially
deposed to: "had always said and believed that Pickwick would marry Mrs.
Bardell; knew that Mrs. Bardell being engaged to Pickwick was the current
topic of conversation in the neighbourhood, after the fainting in July;
had been told it herself by Mrs. Mudberry which kept a mangle, and Mrs.
Bunkin which clear-starched, but did not see either Mrs. Mudberry or Mrs.
Bunkin in court."

Notwithstanding these speculations, it still does not appear that
Pickwick made such a legal and official refusal to execute his promise as
would be sufficient to support the statement of what is now called "the
summons and plaint," to wit, that the plaintiff being able and willing
"to marry the defendant the defendant refused, etc."

There is another matter on which hands of skilful counsel might have
affected Mrs. Bardell and which my friend Mr. Burnand ("F. C. B.") was
the first to push home.  At the trial, Mrs. Saunders cross-examined by
Serjeant Snubbin, had to admit that her friend had an admirer--a certain
Baker in the neighbourhood--who was supposed to have matrimonial designs.
Pressed on this matter she thus deposed: "Had heard Pickwick ask the
little boy how he should like to have another father.  Did not know that
Mrs. Bardell was at that time keeping company with the baker, but did
know that the baker was then a single man, and is now married.  Couldn't
swear that Mrs. Bardell was not very fond of the baker, but should think
that the baker was not very fond of Mrs. Bardell, or he wouldn't have
married somebody else.  Thought Mrs. Bardell fainted away on the morning
in July, because Pickwick asked her to name the day; knew that she
(witness) fainted away stone dead when Mr. Saunders asked _her_ to name
the day, and believed that everybody as called herself a lady would do
the same, under similar circumstances.  Heard Pickwick ask the boy the
question about the marbles, but upon her oath did not know the difference
between an alley tor and a commoney.

By the COURT.--During the period of her keeping company with Mr. Sanders,
had received love letters, like other ladies.  In course of their
correspondence Mr. Sanders had often called her a 'duck,' but never
'chops,' nor yet 'tomata sauce.'  He was particularly fond of ducks.
Perhaps if he had been as fond of chops and tomata sauce, he might have
called her that, as a term of affection.

What a point, too, Serjeant Snubbin missed here!  Could he not have
quoted the old verses.  How he would have convulsed the court as he
poured out the apropos "for Tommy and Me!"

    Pat-a-cake, Pat-a-cake, baker's man,
       Bake me a cake as quick as you can;
    Knead it and bake i