t importance was in contemplation, but what
    that something was not even Mrs. Bardell herself had been enabled to
    discover.

    'Mrs. Bardell,' said Mr. Pickwick at last, as that amiable female
    approached the termination of a prolonged dusting of the apartment.

    'Sir,' said Mrs. Bardell.

    'Your little boy is a very long time gone.'

    'Why, it's a good long way to the Borough, sir,' remonstrated Mrs.
    Bardell.

    'Ah,' said Pickwick, 'very true; so it is.'

    Mr. Pickwick relapsed into silence, and Mrs. Bardell resumed her
    dusting.

    'Mrs. Bardell,' said Mr. Pickwick, at the expiration of a few
    minutes.

    'Sir,' said Mrs. Bardell again.

    'Do you think it's a much greater expense to keep two people, than to
    keep one?'

    'La, Mr. Pickwick,' said Mrs. Bardell, colouring up to the very
    border of her cap, as she fancied she observed a species of
    matrimonial twinkle in the eyes of her lodger, 'La, Mr. Pickwick,
    what a question!'

    'Well, but _do_ you?' inquired Mr. Pickwick.

    'That depends--' said Mrs. Bardell, approaching the duster very near
    to Mr. Pickwick's elbow, which was planted on the table; 'that
    depends a good deal upon the person, you know, Mr. Pickwick; and
    whether it's a saving and careful person, sir.'

    'That's very true,' said Mr. Pickwick, 'but the person I have in my
    eye (here he looked very hard at Mrs. Bardell) I think possesses
    these qualities; and has, moreover, a considerable knowledge of the
    world, and a great deal of sharpness, Mrs. Bardell; which may be of
    material use to me.'

    'La, Mr. Pickwick,' said Mrs. Bardell; the crimson rising to her
    cap-border again.

    'I do,' said Mr. Pickwick, growing energetic, as was his wont in
    speaking of a subject which interested him, 'I do, indeed; and to
    tell you the truth, Mrs. Bardell, I have made up my mind.'

    'Dear me, sir,' exclaimed Mrs. Bardell.

    'You'll think it very strange, now,' said the amiable Mr. Pickwick,
    with a good humoured glance at his companion, 'that I never consulted
    you about this matter, and never even mentioned it, till I sent your
    little boy out this morning, eh?'

    Mrs. Bardell could only reply by a look.  She had long worshipped Mr.
    Pickwick at a distance, but here she was, all at once, raised to a
    pinnacle to which her wildest and most extravagant hopes and never
    dared to aspire.  Mr. Pickwick was going to propose--a deliberate
    plan, too--sent her little boy to the Borough, to get him out of the
    way--how thoughtful--how considerate!'

    'Well,' said Mr. Pickwick, 'what do you think?'

    'Oh, Mr. Pickwick,' said Mrs. Bardell, trembling with agitation,
    'you're very kind, sir.'

    'It'll save you a good deal of trouble, won't it?' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Oh, I never thought anything of the trouble, sir,' replied Mrs.
    Bardell; 'and, of course, I should take more trouble to please you
    then, than ever; but it is so kind of you, Mr. Pickwick, to have so
    much consideration for my loneliness.'

    'Ah, to be sure,' said Mr. Pickwick; 'I never thought of that.  When
    I am in town, you'll always have somebody to sit with you.  To be
    sure, so you will.'

    'I'm sure I ought to be a very happy woman,' said Mrs. Bardell.

    'And your little boy--' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Bless his heart,' interposed Mrs. Bardell, with a maternal sob.

    'He, too, will have a companion,' resumed Mr. Pickwick, 'a lively
    one, who'll teach him, I'll be bound, more tricks in a week than he
    would ever learn in a year.'  And Mr. Pickwick smiled placidly.

    'Oh, you dear--' said Mrs. Bardell.

    Mr. Pickwick started.

    'Oh, you kind, good, playful dear,' said Mrs. Bardell; and without
    more ado, she rose from her chair, and flung her arms round Mr.
    Pickwick's neck, with a cataract of tears, and a chorus of sobs.

    'Bless my soul,' cried the astonished Mr. Pickwick;--'Mrs. Bardell,
    my good woman--dear me, what a situation--pray--consider, Mrs.
    Bardell, if anybody should come.'

    'O, let them come,' exclaimed Mrs. Bardell, frantically.

    'I'll never leave you, dear, kind, good soul.'  And with these words
    Mrs. Bardell clung the tighter.

Every utterance of the little Judge is in character, from his first
directions "go on."  His suspicious question, "what were you doing in the
back room, ma'am?"--and on Serjeant Buzfuz's sudden pause for breath,
when "the _silence_ awoke Mr. Justice Stareleigh, who immediately wrote
down something, with a pen without any ink in it, and looked unusually
profound, to impress his jury with the belief that he always thought most
deeply with his eyes shut."  Also when at the "on the jar" incident--he
"looked doubtful, but said he'd make a note of it."  So when Sam made one
of his free and easy speeches, the Judge looked sternly at Sam for fully
two minutes, but Sam's features were so perfectly calm that he said
nothing.  When Sam, too, made his witty _reposte_ to Buzfuz as to his
"wision being limited," we are