n the light without, and watching the shadows thrown by one wall on
another, and on the stone-paved ground.

It was a dull, square yard, made cold and gloomy by high walls, and
seeming to chill the very sunlight. The stone, so bare, and rough,
and obdurate, filled even him with longing thoughts of meadow-land and
trees; and with a burning wish to be at liberty. As he looked, he rose,
and leaning against the door-post, gazed up at the bright blue sky,
smiling even on that dreary home of crime. He seemed, for a moment, to
remember lying on his back in some sweet-scented place, and gazing at it
through moving branches, long ago.

His attention was suddenly attracted by a clanking sound--he knew what
it was, for he had startled himself by making the same noise in walking
to the door. Presently a voice began to sing, and he saw the shadow of
a figure on the pavement. It stopped--was silent all at once, as
though the person for a moment had forgotten where he was, but
soon remembered--and so, with the same clanking noise, the shadow
disappeared.

He walked out into the court and paced it to and fro; startling the
echoes, as he went, with the harsh jangling of his fetters. There was a
door near his, which, like his, stood ajar.

He had not taken half-a-dozen turns up and down the yard, when, standing
still to observe this door, he heard the clanking sound again. A face
looked out of the grated window--he saw it very dimly, for the cell was
dark and the bars were heavy--and directly afterwards, a man appeared,
and came towards him.

For the sense of loneliness he had, he might have been in jail a year.
Made eager by the hope of companionship, he quickened his pace, and
hastened to meet the man half way--

What was this! His son!

They stood face to face, staring at each other. He shrinking and cowed,
despite himself; Barnaby struggling with his imperfect memory, and
wondering where he had seen that face before. He was not uncertain long,
for suddenly he laid hands upon him, and striving to bear him to the
ground, cried:

'Ah! I know! You are the robber!'

He said nothing in reply at first, but held down his head, and struggled
with him silently. Finding the younger man too strong for him, he raised
his face, looked close into his eyes, and said,

'I am your father.'

God knows what magic the name had for his ears; but Barnaby released his
hold, fell back, and looked at him aghast. Suddenly he sprung towards
him, put his arms about his neck, and pressed his head against his
cheek.

Yes, yes, he was; he was sure he was. But where had he been so long, and
why had he left his mother by herself, or worse than by herself, with
her poor foolish boy? And had she really been as happy as they said?
And where was she? Was she near there? She was not happy now, and he in
jail? Ah, no.

Not a word was said in answer; but Grip croaked loudly, and hopped
about them, round and round, as if enclosing them in a magic circle, and
invoking all the powers of mischief.



Chapter 63


During the whole of this day, every regiment in or near the metropolis
was on duty in one or other part of the town; and the regulars and
militia, in obedience to the orders which were sent to every barrack and
station within twenty-four hours' journey, began to pour in by all the
roads. But the disturbance had attained to such a formidable height, and
the rioters had grown, with impunity, to be so audacious, that the sight
of this great force, continually augmented by new arrivals, instead of
operating as a check, stimulated them to outrages of greater hardihood
than any they had yet committed; and helped to kindle a flame in
London, the like of which had never been beheld, even in its ancient and
rebellious times.

All yesterday, and on this day likewise, the commander-in-chief
endeavoured to arouse the magistrates to a sense of their duty, and in
particular the Lord Mayor, who was the faintest-hearted and most timid
of them all. With this object, large bodies of the soldiery were several
times despatched to the Mansion House to await his orders: but as he
could, by no threats or persuasions, be induced to give any, and as the
men remained in the open street, fruitlessly for any good purpose, and
thrivingly for a very bad one; these laudable attempts did harm rather
than good. For the crowd, becoming speedily acquainted with the Lord
Mayor's temper, did not fail to take advantage of it by boasting that
even the civil authorities were opposed to the Papists, and could not
find it in their hearts to molest those who were guilty of no other
offence. These vaunts they took care to make within the hearing of the
soldiers; and they, being naturally loth to quarrel with the people,
received their advances kindly enough: answering, when they were asked
if they desired to fire upon their countrymen, 'No, they would be damned
if they did;' and showing much honest simplicity and good nature.
The feeling that the military were No-Popery men, and were ripe for
disobeying orders and joining the mob, soon became very prevalent in
consequence. Rumours of their disaffection, and of their 