e moment; sober workmen, going home from their day's
labour, were seen to cast down their baskets of tools and become rioters
in an instant; mere boys on errands did the like. In a word, a moral
plague ran through the city. The noise, and hurry, and excitement, had
for hundreds and hundreds an attraction they had no firmness to resist.
The contagion spread like a dread fever: an infectious madness, as yet
not near its height, seized on new victims every hour, and society began
to tremble at their ravings.

It was between two and three o'clock in the afternoon when Gashford
looked into the lair described in the last chapter, and seeing only
Barnaby and Dennis there, inquired for Hugh.

He was out, Barnaby told him; had gone out more than an hour ago; and
had not yet returned.

'Dennis!' said the smiling secretary, in his smoothest voice, as he sat
down cross-legged on a barrel, 'Dennis!'

The hangman struggled into a sitting posture directly, and with his eyes
wide open, looked towards him.

'How do you do, Dennis?' said Gashford, nodding. 'I hope you have
suffered no inconvenience from your late exertions, Dennis?'

'I always will say of you, Muster Gashford,' returned the hangman,
staring at him, 'that that 'ere quiet way of yours might almost wake a
dead man. It is,' he added, with a muttered oath--still staring at him
in a thoughtful manner--'so awful sly!'

'So distinct, eh Dennis?'

'Distinct!' he answered, scratching his head, and keeping his eyes upon
the secretary's face; 'I seem to hear it, Muster Gashford, in my wery
bones.'

'I am very glad your sense of hearing is so sharp, and that I succeed
in making myself so intelligible,' said Gashford, in his unvarying, even
tone. 'Where is your friend?'

Mr Dennis looked round as in expectation of beholding him asleep upon
his bed of straw; then remembering he had seen him go out, replied:

'I can't say where he is, Muster Gashford, I expected him back afore
now. I hope it isn't time that we was busy, Muster Gashford?'

'Nay,' said the secretary, 'who should know that as well as you? How
can I tell you, Dennis? You are perfect master of your own actions, you
know, and accountable to nobody--except sometimes to the law, eh?'

Dennis, who was very much baffled by the cool matter-of-course manner of
this reply, recovered his self-possession on his professional pursuits
being referred to, and pointing towards Barnaby, shook his head and
frowned.

'Hush!' cried Barnaby.

'Ah! Do hush about that, Muster Gashford,' said the hangman in a low
voice, 'pop'lar prejudices--you always forget--well, Barnaby, my lad,
what's the matter?'

'I hear him coming,' he answered: 'Hark! Do you mark that? That's his
foot! Bless you, I know his step, and his dog's too. Tramp, tramp,
pit-pat, on they come together, and, ha ha ha!--and here they are!' he
cried, joyfully welcoming Hugh with both hands, and then patting him
fondly on the back, as if instead of being the rough companion he was,
he had been one of the most prepossessing of men. 'Here he is, and safe
too! I am glad to see him back again, old Hugh!'

'I'm a Turk if he don't give me a warmer welcome always than any man
of sense,' said Hugh, shaking hands with him with a kind of ferocious
friendship, strange enough to see. 'How are you, boy?'

'Hearty!' cried Barnaby, waving his hat. 'Ha ha ha! And merry too,
Hugh! And ready to do anything for the good cause, and the right, and
to help the kind, mild, pale-faced gentleman--the lord they used so
ill--eh, Hugh?'

'Ay!' returned his friend, dropping his hand, and looking at Gashford
for an instant with a changed expression before he spoke to him. 'Good
day, master!'

'And good day to you,' replied the secretary, nursing his leg.

'And many good days--whole years of them, I hope. You are heated.'

'So would you have been, master,' said Hugh, wiping his face, 'if you'd
been running here as fast as I have.'

'You know the news, then? Yes, I supposed you would have heard it.'

'News! what news?'

'You don't?' cried Gashford, raising his eyebrows with an exclamation
of surprise. 'Dear me! Come; then I AM the first to make you acquainted
with your distinguished position, after all. Do you see the King's Arms
a-top?' he smilingly asked, as he took a large paper from his pocket,
unfolded it, and held it out for Hugh's inspection.

'Well!' said Hugh. 'What's that to me?'

'Much. A great deal,' replied the secretary. 'Read it.'

'I told you, the first time I saw you, that I couldn't read,' said Hugh,
impatiently. 'What in the Devil's name's inside of it?'

'It is a proclamation from the King in Council,' said Gashford, 'dated
to-day, and offering a reward of five hundred pounds--five hundred
pounds is a great deal of money, and a large temptation to some
people--to any one who will discover the person or persons most active
in demolishing those chapels on Saturday night.'

'Is that all?' cried Hugh, with an indifferent air. 'I knew of that.'

'Truly I might have known you did,' said Gashford, smiling, and folding
up the document again. 'Your friend, I might have guessed--indeed I did
guess--was sure to t