ood-natured people, who were always in debt and difficulties. David
felt great pity for their misfortunes and did what he could to help poor
Mrs. Micawber to sell her books and other little things she could spare,
to buy food for herself, her husband, and their four children. If he had
not been a very innocent-minded, good little boy, he might easily have
fallen into bad ways at this time. But God took care of the orphan boy
and kept him from harm.

The troubles of the Micawbers increased more and more, until at last
they were obliged to leave London. The last Sunday the Micawbers were in
town David dined with them. After he had seen them off the next morning
by the coach, he wrote to Peggotty to ask her if she knew where his
aunt, Miss Betsy Trotwood, lived, and to borrow half a guinea; for he
had resolved to run away from Murdstone & Grinby's, and go to his aunt
and tell her his story. Peggotty wrote, enclosing the half-guinea, and
saying she only knew Miss Trotwood lived near Dover, but whether in that
place itself, or at Folkestone, Sandgate, or Hythe, she could not tell.
Hearing that all these places were close together, David made up his
mind to start. As he had received his week's wages in advance, he waited
till the following Saturday, thinking it would not be honest to go
before. He went out to look for some one to carry his box to the coach
office, and unfortunately employed a wicked young man who not only ran
off with his box, but robbed him of his half-guinea, leaving poor David
in dire distress. In despair, he started off to walk to Dover, and was
forced to sell his waistcoat to buy some bread. The first night he found
his way to his old school at Blackheath, and slept on a haystack close
by, feeling some comfort in the thought of the boys being near. He knew
Steerforth had left, or he would have tried to see him.

On he trudged the next day and sold his jacket for one shilling and
fourpence. He was afraid to buy anything but bread or to spend any money
on a bed or a shelter for the night. After six days, he arrived at
Dover, ragged, dusty, and half-dead with hunger and fatigue. But here,
at first, he could get no tidings of his aunt, and, in despair, was
going to try some of the other places Peggotty had mentioned, when the
driver of a fly dropped his horsecloth, and as David was handing it up
to him, he saw something kind in the man's face that encouraged him to
ask once more if he knew where Miss Trotwood lived.

  [Illustration: LITTLE DAVID COPPERFIELD.]

The man directed him towards some houses on the heights, and thither
David toiled; a forlorn little creature, without a jacket or waistcoat,
his white hat crushed out of shape, his shoes worn out, his shirt and
trousers torn and stained, his pretty curly hair tangled, his face and
hands sunburnt, and covered with dust. Lifting his big, wistful eyes to
one of the windows above, he saw a pleasant faced gentleman with grey
hair, who nodded at him several times, then shook his head and went
away. David was just turning away to think what he should do, when a
tall, erect, elderly lady, with a gardening apron on and a knife in her
hand, came out of the house, and began to dig up a root in the garden.

"Go away," she cried. "Go away. No boys here."

But David felt desperate. Going in softly, he stood beside her, and
touched her with his finger, and said timidly, "If you please, ma'am--"
and when she looked up, he went on--

"Please, aunt, I am your nephew."

"Oh, Lord!" she exclaimed in astonishment, and sat flat down on the
path, staring at him, while he went on--

"I am David Copperfield, of Blunderstone, in Suffolk, where you came the
night I was born, and saw my dear mamma. I have been unhappy since she
died. I have been slighted and taught nothing, and thrown upon myself,
and put to work not fit for me. It made me run away to you. I was robbed
at first starting out and have walked all the way, and have never slept
in a bed since I began the journey." Here he broke into a passion of
crying, and his aunt jumped up and took him into the house, where she
put him on the sofa and sent the servant to ask "Mr. Dick" to come down.
The gentleman whom David had seen at the window came in and was told who
the ragged little object on the sofa was.

"Now here you see young David Copperfield, and the question is What
shall I do with him?"

"Do with him?" answered Mr. Dick. Then, after some consideration, and
looking at David, he said, "Well, if I was you, I would wash him!"

David knelt down to say his prayers that night in a pleasant room facing
the sea, and as he lay in the clean, snow-white bed, he prayed he might
never be homeless again, and might never forget the homeless.

The next morning his aunt told him she had written to Mr. Murdstone, and
at last Mr. and Miss Murdstone arrived.

Mr. Murdstone told Miss Betsy that David was a very bad, stubborn,
violent-tempered boy, whom he had tried to improve, but could not
succeed. If Miss Trotwood chose to protect and encourage him now, she
must do it always, for he had come to fetch him away.

"Are you ready to go, David?"