ty walls to reiterate the shuffle
and the tread of feet unceasingly, save when the closing of some heavy
door resounded through the building like a clap of thunder, and drowned
all other noises in its rolling sound.

Mr Haredale, glancing only at such of these groups as he passed nearest
to, and then in a manner betokening that his thoughts were elsewhere,
had nearly traversed the Hall, when two persons before him caught his
attention. One of these, a gentleman in elegant attire, carried in his
hand a cane, which he twirled in a jaunty manner as he loitered on; the
other, an obsequious, crouching, fawning figure, listened to what
he said--at times throwing in a humble word himself--and, with his
shoulders shrugged up to his ears, rubbed his hands submissively, or
answered at intervals by an inclination of the head, half-way between a
nod of acquiescence, and a bow of most profound respect.

In the abstract there was nothing very remarkable in this pair, for
servility waiting on a handsome suit of clothes and a cane--not to speak
of gold and silver sticks, or wands of office--is common enough. But
there was that about the well-dressed man, yes, and about the other
likewise, which struck Mr Haredale with no pleasant feeling. He
hesitated, stopped, and would have stepped aside and turned out of his
path, but at the moment, the other two faced about quickly, and stumbled
upon him before he could avoid them.

The gentleman with the cane lifted his hat and had begun to tender an
apology, which Mr Haredale had begun as hastily to acknowledge and walk
away, when he stopped short and cried, 'Haredale! Gad bless me, this is
strange indeed!'

'It is,' he returned impatiently; 'yes--a--'

'My dear friend,' cried the other, detaining him, 'why such great speed?
One minute, Haredale, for the sake of old acquaintance.'

'I am in haste,' he said. 'Neither of us has sought this meeting. Let it
be a brief one. Good night!'

'Fie, fie!' replied Sir John (for it was he), 'how very churlish! We
were speaking of you. Your name was on my lips--perhaps you heard me
mention it? No? I am sorry for that. I am really sorry.--You know our
friend here, Haredale? This is really a most remarkable meeting!'

The friend, plainly very ill at ease, had made bold to press Sir John's
arm, and to give him other significant hints that he was desirous of
avoiding this introduction. As it did not suit Sir John's purpose,
however, that it should be evaded, he appeared quite unconscious of
these silent remonstrances, and inclined his hand towards him, as he
spoke, to call attention to him more particularly.

The friend, therefore, had nothing for it, but to muster up the
pleasantest smile he could, and to make a conciliatory bow, as Mr
Haredale turned his eyes upon him. Seeing that he was recognised, he put
out his hand in an awkward and embarrassed manner, which was not mended
by its contemptuous rejection.

'Mr Gashford!' said Haredale, coldly. 'It is as I have heard then. You
have left the darkness for the light, sir, and hate those whose opinions
you formerly held, with all the bitterness of a renegade. You are an
honour, sir, to any cause. I wish the one you espouse at present, much
joy of the acquisition it has made.'

The secretary rubbed his hands and bowed, as though he would disarm
his adversary by humbling himself before him. Sir John Chester again
exclaimed, with an air of great gaiety, 'Now, really, this is a
most remarkable meeting!' and took a pinch of snuff with his usual
self-possession.

'Mr Haredale,' said Gashford, stealthily raising his eyes, and
letting them drop again when they met the other's steady gaze, is too
conscientious, too honourable, too manly, I am sure, to attach unworthy
motives to an honest change of opinions, even though it implies a doubt
of those he holds himself. Mr Haredale is too just, too generous, too
clear-sighted in his moral vision, to--'

'Yes, sir?' he rejoined with a sarcastic smile, finding the secretary
stopped. 'You were saying'--

Gashford meekly shrugged his shoulders, and looking on the ground again,
was silent.

'No, but let us really,' interposed Sir John at this juncture, 'let us
really, for a moment, contemplate the very remarkable character of this
meeting. Haredale, my dear friend, pardon me if I think you are not
sufficiently impressed with its singularity. Here we stand, by no
previous appointment or arrangement, three old schoolfellows, in
Westminster Hall; three old boarders in a remarkably dull and shady
seminary at Saint Omer's, where you, being Catholics and of necessity
educated out of England, were brought up; and where I, being a promising
young Protestant at that time, was sent to learn the French tongue from
a native of Paris!'

'Add to the singularity, Sir John,' said Mr Haredale, 'that some of you
Protestants of promise are at this moment leagued in yonder building, to
prevent our having the surpassing and unheard-of privilege of teaching
our children to read and write--here--in this land, where thousands of
us enter your service every year, and to preserve the freedom of which,
we die in blo