,' said the individual in black, 'are you all agreed upon
    your verdict?'

    'We are,' replied the foreman.

    'Do you find for the plaintiff, gentlemen, or for the defendant?'

    'For the plaintiff.'

    'With what damages, gentlemen?'

    'Seven hundred and fifty pounds.'

    Mr. Pickwick took off his spectacles, carefully wiped the glasses,
    folded them into their case, and put them in his pocket; then having
    drawn on his gloves with great nicety, and stared at the foreman all
    the while, he mechanically followed Mr. Perker and the blue bag out
    of court.

    They stopped in a side room while Perker paid the court fees; and
    here, Mr. Pickwick was joined by his friends.  Here, too, he
    encountered Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, rubbing their hands with every
    token of outward satisfaction.

    'Well, gentlemen,' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Well, sir,' said Dodson: for self and partner.

    'You imagine you'll get your costs, don't you, gentlemen?' said Mr.
    Pickwick.

    Fogg said they thought it rather probable.  Dodson smiled, and said
    they'd try.

    'You may try, and try, and try again, Messrs. Dodson and Fogg,' said
    Mr. Pickwick vehemently, 'but not one farthing of costs or damages do
    you ever get from me, if I spend the rest of my existence in a
    debtor's prison.'

    'Ha, ha!' laughed Dodson.  'You will think better of that, before
    next term, Mr. Pickwick.'

    'He, he, he!  We'll soon see about that Mr. Pickwick,' grinned Mr.
    Fogg.

    Speechless with indignation, Mr. Pickwick allowed himself to be led
    by his solicitor and friends to the door, and there assisted into a
    hackney-coach, which had been fetched for the purpose, by the ever
    watchful Sam Weller.

    Sam had put up the steps; and was preparing to jump upon the box,
    when he felt himself gently touched on the shoulder; and looking
    round, his father stood before him.  The old gentleman's countenance
    wore a mournful expression, as he shook his head gravely, and said,
    in warning accents:

    'I know'd what 'ud come 'o this here mode 'o doin' bisness.  Oh
    Sammy, Sammy, vy worn't there a alleybi!'

We may wonder that the laborious Chamber Counsel Serjeant Snubbin did not
advise "moving for a new trial."  The verdict was clearly a wrong one--no
sufficient evidence had been furnished either of a promise, or a breach.
The full court would no doubt have granted the motion, and this would
have led to Mr. Pickwick's release, for the astute Dodson and Fogg must
have recognised their poor chances, and perhaps have required "security
for costs," which their client could not have given.  However, the idea
did not occur to anybody.

Since the law was changed both plaintiff and defendant may be examined in
such cases as these.  What a different complexion this would have put on
the suit.  The whole case would have tumbled to pieces like a pack of
cards.  For Mr. Pickwick "put into the box" would have clearly shown that
all that had been thus misconstrued, was his proposal for engaging a
valet, which was to have been that very morning.  He would have related
the words of the dialogue, and the Jury would have seen at once how the
mistake arose.  On the other hand, he would have been exposed to a severe
rating cross examination by the learned Serjeant--fortified by Winkle's
most damaging slip about the White Horse incident--who would have forced
out of him all the incidents.  We can almost hear the Serjeant subject
the Defendant to the torture.

"This fellow of yours, Sir, was he recommended to you by a friend?"

"No--not at all."

"By a Registry Office?"

"Certainly not--nothing of the kind."

"Nothing of the kind?  I suppose too low a class of place for you, eh?
Come Sir!"

"I never said such a thing."

"Nor thought it, I suppose?  Come, Sir, no beating about the bush.  In
plain terms, did you get him from a low Public House in the Boro'?"

Mr. Pickwick started up.

"Never!"

"Do you deny it?"

"I never knew that the White Hart was a low Public-House," said the
witness indignantly.

"Never mind what you know, Sir.  Did you or did you not get him from
there?" thundered the Serjeant.

"Of course I did."

"Of course you did.  Then what's the use of all this juggling.  It does
you no good with My Lord and the Jury.  I tell you plainly, Mr. Pickwick,
we mean to have all out of you.  Now Sir, was this man of yours an
experienced valet?"

"Certainly not."

"He had, of course, some training in his profession in other families?"

"Not that I know of."

"Not that you know of.  Do you dare to persist in that, Sir?"

"Why not?"

"Don't ask _me_ questions, Sir, I'm asking _you_.  Do you deny, Sir, that
the man was neither more nor less than a common Boots in the yard of a
Public House, wearing an old tattered hat and jacket--very different from
the suit in which you have rigged him up here to-day?"

Mr. Pickwick was astonished and silent.  He was suffering.  He had never
dreamed of this view.

"Why," he said, "I suppose--"

"We want none of your supposes, Sir, answer yes or no."

"Well he certain