Why did they not take action on this?  Perhaps they
were afraid; as Mr. Pickwick had shewn himself such a doughty and
unyielding fighter--going to prison rather than pay.  Perhaps they
thought he might get the better of them again.

We have very little evidence as to what was the scale of fees in use in
these days.  They were of course far lower than they are now, after
allowances even for the lower cost of living.  To-day, the fees to
Counsel alone would have absorbed considerably more than Dodson and
Fogg's whole bill of costs.  A nice point is, could Mr. Pickwick's
irregular interview with Serjeant Snubbin be considered something in the
way of a consultation?  Here were Counsel, Solicitor and Client: the
Serjeant gave up a portion of his valuable time and, further, the junior
counsel was summoned specially from his chambers to supply his "advice
and opinion."  Mr. Pickwick ought surely to have to pay for his whim.
And the bill of costs that these "sharks" of attornies sent in!  It was
astonishingly moderate.  For writ, service of subpoenas, hunting up
evidence, consultation, fees to counsel, fees for the day, retainers,
etc.,--the sum of 120 pounds was all that was asked.

Imagine Messrs. Lewis and Lewis sending in such a demand at the end of a
trial which it had taken them nearly a year to get ready.  In our time it
could hardly be done under 1,000 pounds.  Perker, by the way, told his
client that on payment of the costs both of Plaintiff and Defendent, into
the hands of "these sharks" he would get his release.  With much
indulgence--the attornies--allowed him to leave the prison on his bare
undertaking to pay.  And it is not clear why he should pay his own costs
to them, and not to Perker.  And they were _not_ paid for sometime.  Mr.
Pickwick's own costs must have been small.  He had no witnesses.  Perker
would not have made a hand of him, and I fancy he would have got off for
ninety pounds, or a hundred pounds.  There was, however, the fees of the
Special Jury, so he would have to pay, say, 220 pounds.




THE COGNOVIT.


Perker, it has been shown, was not a very brilliant solicitor, and his
views on the trial were somewhat cloudy.  When he was urging his client
to leave the Fleet he threw out some equally shadowy and ill-informed
notions as to what might be done in the way of punishing the nefarious
solicitors, Dodson and Fogg, "those Freeman's Court Sharks."

His great charge was that they had got a _cognovit_, or undertaking to
pay their costs out of Mrs. Bardell--their own client!  Mr. Pickwick
refused to pay them--why should not she?  The poor woman had "blabbed" to
Sam, a careless and natural assurance of theirs, that they would be
content to get them from Mr. Pickwick--a thing many a firm would do.  But
Perker here sees a regular conspiracy.  "I cannot undertake to say
whether the wording of the cognovit, the nature of the ostensible
consideration and the proof we can get together about the whole conduct
of the suit, _will be sufficient to justify an indictment for
conspiracy_."

It is impossible to understand this bit of legal jargon.  "The wording of
the cognovit"--one could speculate on _that_ without seeing it.  (2) "The
nature of the ostensible consideration" was not far to seek--it being
work and labour done for the Plaintiff.  And again, supposing they had
promised her to get them solely from Mr. Pickwick--Sam's revelation of
this, in open court, and its reception with laughter, showed what was
thought of it.  So which of the two courses were they to adopt?  (3) And
"the proof we may get together about the whole conduct of the suit."
This "whole conduct" was perfectly regular.  So the Judge thought--so did
the jury.  The case was proved by Pickwick's own friends.  As we know,
however, the firm took no steps to obtain satisfaction, but there cannot
be the slightest doubt that they would have "recovered damages."  We
doubt if Mr. Pickwick would have gone to the Fleet for the second time
rather than pay.

Perker's suspicions as to the _Cognovit_ obtained by Dodson and Fogg were
shrewd, and certain enough, though he could not have seen the document.
The suspicions were well warranted by the state of the Law, which became
an instrument in the hands of grasping attorneys.  By it the client was
made to sign an acknowledgment, and offering no defence to a supposed
action,--say for costs--brought against him, Judgment was then marked.

This offered a great temptation to the unscrupulous.  Mrs. Bardell, no
doubt, signed with light heart, not knowing what she was doing, and being
told that it was merely a matter of form.  Various enactments attempted
to protect the client--one being passed some four or five years before
the trial Bardell v. Pickwick, requiring the _Cognovit_ to be regularly
filed within twenty-one days; more than ten years later it was required,
that the client's signing such a thing should have no force in Law,
unless he was represented by another solicitor.

The matter, as we know, was compromised with Dodson and Fogg, so there
was no need to scrutinize the _Cognovit_.  No doubt Perker was enabled