hedges, till at last he come to be hostler at the Maypole for his board
and lodging and a annual trifle--that chap that can't read nor write,
and has never had much to do with anything but animals, and has never
lived in any way but like the animals he has lived among, IS a animal.
And,' said Mr Willet, arriving at his logical conclusion, 'is to be
treated accordingly.'

'Willet,' said Solomon Daisy, who had exhibited some impatience at the
intrusion of so unworthy a subject on their more interesting theme,
'when Mr Chester come this morning, did he order the large room?'

'He signified, sir,' said John, 'that he wanted a large apartment. Yes.
Certainly.'

'Why then, I'll tell you what,' said Solomon, speaking softly and with
an earnest look. 'He and Mr Haredale are going to fight a duel in it.'

Everybody looked at Mr Willet, after this alarming suggestion. Mr Willet
looked at the fire, weighing in his own mind the effect which such an
occurrence would be likely to have on the establishment.

'Well,' said John, 'I don't know--I am sure--I remember that when I went
up last, he HAD put the lights upon the mantel-shelf.'

'It's as plain,' returned Solomon, 'as the nose on Parkes's face'--Mr
Parkes, who had a large nose, rubbed it, and looked as if he considered
this a personal allusion--'they'll fight in that room. You know by
the newspapers what a common thing it is for gentlemen to fight in
coffee-houses without seconds. One of 'em will be wounded or perhaps
killed in this house.'

'That was a challenge that Barnaby took then, eh?' said John.

'--Inclosing a slip of paper with the measure of his sword upon it, I'll
bet a guinea,' answered the little man. 'We know what sort of gentleman
Mr Haredale is. You have told us what Barnaby said about his looks, when
he came back. Depend upon it, I'm right. Now, mind.'

The flip had had no flavour till now. The tobacco had been of mere
English growth, compared with its present taste. A duel in that great
old rambling room upstairs, and the best bed ordered already for the
wounded man!

'Would it be swords or pistols, now?' said John.

'Heaven knows. Perhaps both,' returned Solomon. 'The gentlemen wear
swords, and may easily have pistols in their pockets--most likely have,
indeed. If they fire at each other without effect, then they'll draw,
and go to work in earnest.'

A shade passed over Mr Willet's face as he thought of broken windows and
disabled furniture, but bethinking himself that one of the parties would
probably be left alive to pay the damage, he brightened up again.

'And then,' said Solomon, looking from face to face, 'then we shall have
one of those stains upon the floor that never come out. If Mr Haredale
wins, depend upon it, it'll be a deep one; or if he loses, it will
perhaps be deeper still, for he'll never give in unless he's beaten
down. We know him better, eh?'

'Better indeed!' they whispered all together.

'As to its ever being got out again,' said Solomon, 'I tell you it never
will, or can be. Why, do you know that it has been tried, at a certain
house we are acquainted with?'

'The Warren!' cried John. 'No, sure!'

'Yes, sure--yes. It's only known by very few. It has been whispered
about though, for all that. They planed the board away, but there it
was. They went deep, but it went deeper. They put new boards down, but
there was one great spot that came through still, and showed itself in
the old place. And--harkye--draw nearer--Mr Geoffrey made that room his
study, and sits there, always, with his foot (as I have heard) upon it;
and he believes, through thinking of it long and very much, that it will
never fade until he finds the man who did the deed.'

As this recital ended, and they all drew closer round the fire, the
tramp of a horse was heard without.

'The very man!' cried John, starting up. 'Hugh! Hugh!'

The sleeper staggered to his feet, and hurried after him. John quickly
returned, ushering in with great attention and deference (for Mr
Haredale was his landlord) the long-expected visitor, who strode into
the room clanking his heavy boots upon the floor; and looking keenly
round upon the bowing group, raised his hat in acknowledgment of their
profound respect.

'You have a stranger here, Willet, who sent to me,' he said, in a voice
which sounded naturally stern and deep. 'Where is he?'

'In the great room upstairs, sir,' answered John.

'Show the way. Your staircase is dark, I know. Gentlemen, good night.'

With that, he signed to the landlord to go on before; and went clanking
out, and up the stairs; old John, in his agitation, ingeniously lighting
everything but the way, and making a stumble at every second step.

'Stop!' he said, when they reached the landing. 'I can announce myself.
Don't wait.'

He laid his hand upon the door, entered, and shut it heavily. Mr Willet
was by no means disposed to stand there listening by himself, especially
as the walls were very thick; so descended, with much greater alacrity
than he had come up, and joined his friends below.



Chapter 12


There was a brief pause in the state-room of the Maypole, as Mr Haredale
t