 to fall heavily to the
ground from his narrow bed, Hugh's eyes opened.

It happened that his face was turned directly towards his unexpected
visitor. He looked lazily at him for some half-dozen seconds without any
aspect of surprise or recognition; then suddenly jumped up, and with a
great oath pronounced his name.

'Keep off, brother, keep off!' cried Dennis, dodging behind the chair.
'Don't do me a mischief. I'm a prisoner like you. I haven't the free use
of my limbs. I'm quite an old man. Don't hurt me!'

He whined out the last three words in such piteous accents, that Hugh,
who had dragged away the chair, and aimed a blow at him with it, checked
himself, and bade him get up.

'I'll get up certainly, brother,' cried Dennis, anxious to propitiate
him by any means in his power. 'I'll comply with any request of yours,
I'm sure. There--I'm up now. What can I do for you? Only say the word,
and I'll do it.'

'What can you do for me!' cried Hugh, clutching him by the collar with
both hands, and shaking him as though he were bent on stopping his
breath by that means. 'What have you done for me?'

'The best. The best that could be done,' returned the hangman.

Hugh made him no answer, but shaking him in his strong grip until his
teeth chattered in his head, cast him down upon the floor, and flung
himself on the bench again.

'If it wasn't for the comfort it is to me, to see you here,' he
muttered, 'I'd have crushed your head against it; I would.'

It was some time before Dennis had breath enough to speak, but as soon
as he could resume his propitiatory strain, he did so.

'I did the best that could be done, brother,' he whined; 'I did indeed.
I was forced with two bayonets and I don't know how many bullets on each
side of me, to point you out. If you hadn't been taken, you'd have been
shot; and what a sight that would have been--a fine young man like you!'

'Will it be a better sight now?' asked Hugh, raising his head, with such
a fierce expression, that the other durst not answer him just then.

'A deal better,' said Dennis meekly, after a pause. 'First, there's all
the chances of the law, and they're five hundred strong. We may get off
scot-free. Unlikelier things than that have come to pass. Even if we
shouldn't, and the chances fail, we can but be worked off once: and when
it's well done, it's so neat, so skilful, so captiwating, if that don't
seem too strong a word, that you'd hardly believe it could be brought
to sich perfection. Kill one's fellow-creeturs off, with muskets!--Pah!'
and his nature so revolted at the bare idea, that he spat upon the
dungeon pavement.

His warming on this topic, which to one unacquainted with his pursuits
and tastes appeared like courage; together with his artful suppression
of his own secret hopes, and mention of himself as being in the same
condition with Hugh; did more to soothe that ruffian than the most
elaborate arguments could have done, or the most abject submission.
He rested his arms upon his knees, and stooping forward, looked from
beneath his shaggy hair at Dennis, with something of a smile upon his
face.

'The fact is, brother,' said the hangman, in a tone of greater
confidence, 'that you got into bad company. The man that was with you
was looked after more than you, and it was him I wanted. As to me, what
have I got by it? Here we are, in one and the same plight.'

'Lookee, rascal,' said Hugh, contracting his brows, 'I'm not altogether
such a shallow blade but I know you expected to get something by it, or
you wouldn't have done it. But it's done, and you're here, and it will
soon be all over with you and me; and I'd as soon die as live, or live
as die. Why should I trouble myself to have revenge on you? To eat, and
drink, and go to sleep, as long as I stay here, is all I care for. If
there was but a little more sun to bask in, than can find its way into
this cursed place, I'd lie in it all day, and not trouble myself to sit
or stand up once. That's all the care I have for myself. Why should I
care for YOU?'

Finishing this speech with a growl like the yawn of a wild beast, he
stretched himself upon the bench again, and closed his eyes once more.

After looking at him in silence for some moments, Dennis, who was
greatly relieved to find him in this mood, drew the chair towards his
rough couch and sat down near him--taking the precaution, however, to
keep out of the range of his brawny arm.

'Well said, brother; nothing could be better said,' he ventured to
observe. 'We'll eat and drink of the best, and sleep our best, and make
the best of it every way. Anything can be got for money. Let's spend it
merrily.'

'Ay,' said Hugh, coiling himself into a new position.--'Where is it?'

'Why, they took mine from me at the lodge,' said Mr Dennis; 'but mine's
a peculiar case.'

'Is it? They took mine too.'

'Why then, I tell you what, brother,' Dennis began. 'You must look up
your friends--'

'My friends!' cried Hugh, starting up and resting on his hands. 'Where
are my friends?'

'Your relations then,' said Dennis.

'Ha ha ha!' laughed Hugh, waving one arm above his head. 'He talks of
frien