sterious companion to proceed without interruption.

'These smalls,' said Dennis, rubbing his legs; 'these very smalls--they
belonged to a friend of mine that's left off sich incumbrances for ever:
this coat too--I've often walked behind this coat, in the street, and
wondered whether it would ever come to me: this pair of shoes have
danced a hornpipe for another man, afore my eyes, full half-a-dozen
times at least: and as to my hat,' he said, taking it off, and whirling
it round upon his fist--'Lord! I've seen this hat go up Holborn on the
box of a hackney-coach--ah, many and many a day!'

'You don't mean to say their old wearers are ALL dead, I hope?' said Mr
Tappertit, falling a little distance from him as he spoke.

'Every one of 'em,' replied Dennis. 'Every man Jack!'

There was something so very ghastly in this circumstance, and it
appeared to account, in such a very strange and dismal manner, for his
faded dress--which, in this new aspect, seemed discoloured by the earth
from graves--that Mr Tappertit abruptly found he was going another way,
and, stopping short, bade him good night with the utmost heartiness. As
they happened to be near the Old Bailey, and Mr Dennis knew there were
turnkeys in the lodge with whom he could pass the night, and discuss
professional subjects of common interest among them before a rousing
fire, and over a social glass, he separated from his companions without
any great regret, and warmly shaking hands with Hugh, and making an
early appointment for their meeting at The Boot, left them to pursue
their road.

'That's a strange sort of man,' said Mr Tappertit, watching the
hackney-coachman's hat as it went bobbing down the street. 'I don't know
what to make of him. Why can't he have his smalls made to order, or wear
live clothes at any rate?'

'He's a lucky man, captain,' cried Hugh. 'I should like to have such
friends as his.'

'I hope he don't get 'em to make their wills, and then knock 'em on the
head,' said Mr Tappertit, musing. 'But come. The United B.'s expect me.
On!--What's the matter?'

'I quite forgot,' said Hugh, who had started at the striking of a
neighbouring clock. 'I have somebody to see to-night--I must turn back
directly. The drinking and singing put it out of my head. It's well I
remembered it!'

Mr Tappertit looked at him as though he were about to give utterance to
some very majestic sentiments in reference to this act of desertion, but
as it was clear, from Hugh's hasty manner, that the engagement was one
of a pressing nature, he graciously forbore, and gave him his permission
to depart immediately, which Hugh acknowledged with a roar of laughter.

'Good night, captain!' he cried. 'I am yours to the death, remember!'

'Farewell!' said Mr Tappertit, waving his hand. 'Be bold and vigilant!'

'No Popery, captain!' roared Hugh.

'England in blood first!' cried his desperate leader. Whereat Hugh
cheered and laughed, and ran off like a greyhound.

'That man will prove a credit to my corps,' said Simon, turning
thoughtfully upon his heel. 'And let me see. In an altered state of
society--which must ensue if we break out and are victorious--when the
locksmith's child is mine, Miggs must be got rid of somehow, or she'll
poison the tea-kettle one evening when I'm out. He might marry Miggs, if
he was drunk enough. It shall be done. I'll make a note of it.'



Chapter 40


Little thinking of the plan for his happy settlement in life which had
suggested itself to the teeming brain of his provident commander, Hugh
made no pause until Saint Dunstan's giants struck the hour above him,
when he worked the handle of a pump which stood hard by, with great
vigour, and thrusting his head under the spout, let the water gush upon
him until a little stream ran down from every uncombed hair, and he was
wet to the waist. Considerably refreshed by this ablution, both in mind
and body, and almost sobered for the time, he dried himself as he best
could; then crossed the road, and plied the knocker of the Middle Temple
gate.

The night-porter looked through a small grating in the portal with a
surly eye, and cried 'Halloa!' which greeting Hugh returned in kind, and
bade him open quickly.

'We don't sell beer here,' cried the man; 'what else do you want?'

'To come in,' Hugh replied, with a kick at the door.

'Where to go?'

'Paper Buildings.'

'Whose chambers?'

'Sir John Chester's.' Each of which answers, he emphasised with another
kick.

After a little growling on the other side, the gate was opened, and he
passed in: undergoing a close inspection from the porter as he did so.

'YOU wanting Sir John, at this time of night!' said the man.

'Ay!' said Hugh. 'I! What of that?'

'Why, I must go with you and see that you do, for I don't believe it.'

'Come along then.'

Eyeing him with suspicious looks, the man, with key and lantern, walked
on at his side, and attended him to Sir John Chester's door, at which
Hugh gave one knock, that echoed through the dark staircase like a
ghostly summons, and made the dull light tremble in the drowsy lamp.

'Do you think he wants me now?' said Hugh.

Before the man had t