 as indispensable, had doubtless a very favourable
influence upon the bill of costs.

In every Court, ample and commodious provision is made for the
accommodation of the citizens.  This is the case all through America.  In
every Public Institution, the right of the people to attend, and to have
an interest in the proceedings, is most fully and distinctly recognised.
There are no grim door-keepers to dole out their tardy civility by the
sixpenny-worth; nor is there, I sincerely believe, any insolence of
office of any kind.  Nothing national is exhibited for money; and no
public officer is a showman.  We have begun of late years to imitate this
good example.  I hope we shall continue to do so; and that in the fulness
of time, even deans and chapters may be converted.

In the civil court an action was trying, for damages sustained in some
accident upon a railway.  The witnesses had been examined, and counsel
was addressing the jury.  The learned gentleman (like a few of his
English brethren) was desperately long-winded, and had a remarkable
capacity of saying the same thing over and over again.  His great theme
was ‘Warren the en_gine_ driver,’ whom he pressed into the service of
every sentence he uttered.  I listened to him for about a quarter of an
hour; and, coming out of court at the expiration of that time, without
the faintest ray of enlightenment as to the merits of the case, felt as
if I were at home again.

In the prisoner’s cell, waiting to be examined by the magistrate on a
charge of theft, was a boy.  This lad, instead of being committed to a
common jail, would be sent to the asylum at South Boston, and there
taught a trade; and in the course of time he would be bound apprentice to
some respectable master.  Thus, his detection in this offence, instead of
being the prelude to a life of infamy and a miserable death, would lead,
there was a reasonable hope, to his being reclaimed from vice, and
becoming a worthy member of society.

I am by no means a wholesale admirer of our legal solemnities, many of
which impress me as being exceedingly ludicrous.  Strange as it may seem
too, there is undoubtedly a degree of protection in the wig and gown—a
dismissal of individual responsibility in dressing for the part—which
encourages that insolent bearing and language, and that gross perversion
of the office of a pleader for The Truth, so frequent in our courts of
law.  Still, I cannot help doubting whether America, in her desire to
shake off the absurdities and abuses of the old system, may not have gone
too far into the opposite extreme; and whether it is not desirable,
especially in the small community of a city like this, where each man
knows the other, to surround the administration of justice with some
artificial barriers against the ‘Hail fellow, well met’ deportment of
everyday life.  All the aid it can have in the very high character and
ability of the Bench, not only here but elsewhere, it has, and well
deserves to have; but it may need something more: not to impress the
thoughtful and the well-informed, but the ignorant and heedless; a class
which includes some prisoners and many witnesses.  These institutions
were established, no doubt, upon the principle that those who had so
large a share in making the laws, would certainly respect them.  But
experience has proved this hope to be fallacious; for no men know better
than the judges of America, that on the occasion of any great popular
excitement the law is powerless, and cannot, for the time, assert its own
supremacy.

The tone of society in Boston is one of perfect politeness, courtesy, and
good breeding.  The ladies are unquestionably very beautiful—in face: but
there I am compelled to stop.  Their education is much as with us;
neither better nor worse.  I had heard some very marvellous stories in
this respect; but not believing them, was not disappointed.  Blue ladies
there are, in Boston; but like philosophers of that colour and sex in
most other latitudes, they rather desire to be thought superior than to
be so.  Evangelical ladies there are, likewise, whose attachment to the
forms of religion, and horror of theatrical entertainments, are most
exemplary.  Ladies who have a passion for attending lectures are to be
found among all classes and all conditions.  In the kind of provincial
life which prevails in cities such as this, the Pulpit has great
influence.  The peculiar province of the Pulpit in New England (always
excepting the Unitarian Ministry) would appear to be the denouncement of
all innocent and rational amusements.  The church, the chapel, and the
lecture-room, are the only means of excitement excepted; and to the
church, the chapel, and the lecture-room, the ladies resort in crowds.

Wherever religion is resorted to, as a strong drink, and as an escape
from the dull monotonous round of home, those of its ministers who pepper
the highest will be the surest to please.  They who strew the Eternal
Path with the greatest amount of brimstone, and who most ruthlessly tread
down the flowers and leaves that grow by the wayside, will be voted the
most righteous; 