stand
aloof, and let them rush into each other's arms, when, by approaching
each other sensibly, as we do now, we can prevent it, and part them?'

'I love my niece,' said Mr Haredale, after a short silence. 'It may
sound strangely in your ears; but I love her.'

'Strangely, my good fellow!' cried Mr Chester, lazily filling his glass
again, and pulling out his toothpick. 'Not at all. I like Ned too--or,
as you say, love him--that's the word among such near relations.
I'm very fond of Ned. He's an amazingly good fellow, and a handsome
fellow--foolish and weak as yet; that's all. But the thing
is, Haredale--for I'll be very frank, as I told you I would at
first--independently of any dislike that you and I might have to being
related to each other, and independently of the religious differences
between us--and damn it, that's important--I couldn't afford a match of
this description. Ned and I couldn't do it. It's impossible.'

'Curb your tongue, in God's name, if this conversation is to last,'
retorted Mr Haredale fiercely. 'I have said I love my niece. Do you
think that, loving her, I would have her fling her heart away on any man
who had your blood in his veins?'

'You see,' said the other, not at all disturbed, 'the advantage of being
so frank and open. Just what I was about to add, upon my honour! I am
amazingly attached to Ned--quite doat upon him, indeed--and even if we
could afford to throw ourselves away, that very objection would be quite
insuperable.--I wish you'd take some wine?'

'Mark me,' said Mr Haredale, striding to the table, and laying his hand
upon it heavily. 'If any man believes--presumes to think--that I, in
word or deed, or in the wildest dream, ever entertained remotely the
idea of Emma Haredale's favouring the suit of any one who was akin to
you--in any way--I care not what--he lies. He lies, and does me grievous
wrong, in the mere thought.'

'Haredale,' returned the other, rocking himself to and fro as in assent,
and nodding at the fire, 'it's extremely manly, and really very generous
in you, to meet me in this unreserved and handsome way. Upon my word,
those are exactly my sentiments, only expressed with much more force and
power than I could use--you know my sluggish nature, and will forgive
me, I am sure.'

'While I would restrain her from all correspondence with your son, and
sever their intercourse here, though it should cause her death,' said
Mr Haredale, who had been pacing to and fro, 'I would do it kindly and
tenderly if I can. I have a trust to discharge, which my nature is not
formed to understand, and, for this reason, the bare fact of there
being any love between them comes upon me to-night, almost for the first
time.'

'I am more delighted than I can possibly tell you,' rejoined Mr Chester
with the utmost blandness, 'to find my own impression so confirmed. You
see the advantage of our having met. We understand each other. We quite
agree. We have a most complete and thorough explanation, and we know
what course to take.--Why don't you taste your tenant's wine? It's
really very good.'

'Pray who,' said Mr Haredale, 'have aided Emma, or your son? Who are
their go-betweens, and agents--do you know?'

'All the good people hereabouts--the neighbourhood in general, I think,'
returned the other, with his most affable smile. 'The messenger I sent
to you to-day, foremost among them all.'

'The idiot? Barnaby?'

'You are surprised? I am glad of that, for I was rather so myself. Yes.
I wrung that from his mother--a very decent sort of woman--from whom,
indeed, I chiefly learnt how serious the matter had become, and so
determined to ride out here to-day, and hold a parley with you on this
neutral ground.--You're stouter than you used to be, Haredale, but you
look extremely well.'

'Our business, I presume, is nearly at an end,' said Mr Haredale, with
an expression of impatience he was at no pains to conceal. 'Trust me, Mr
Chester, my niece shall change from this time. I will appeal,' he added
in a lower tone, 'to her woman's heart, her dignity, her pride, her
duty--'

'I shall do the same by Ned,' said Mr Chester, restoring some errant
faggots to their places in the grate with the toe of his boot. 'If there
is anything real in this world, it is those amazingly fine feelings and
those natural obligations which must subsist between father and son. I
shall put it to him on every ground of moral and religious feeling. I
shall represent to him that we cannot possibly afford it--that I have
always looked forward to his marrying well, for a genteel provision for
myself in the autumn of life--that there are a great many clamorous dogs
to pay, whose claims are perfectly just and right, and who must be paid
out of his wife's fortune. In short, that the very highest and most
honourable feelings of our nature, with every consideration of filial
duty and affection, and all that sort of thing, imperatively demand that
he should run away with an heiress.'

'And break her heart as speedily as possible?' said Mr Haredale, drawing
on his glove.

'There Ned will act exactly as he pleases,' returned the other,
sipping his