e right.

'The wind was so strong, that it was as much as I could do to shut the
church-door by putting my whole weight against it; and even as it was,
it burst wide open twice, with such strength that any of you would have
sworn, if you had been leaning against it, as I was, that somebody was
pushing on the other side. However, I got the key turned, went into the
belfry, and wound up the clock--which was very near run down, and would
have stood stock-still in half an hour.

'As I took up my lantern again to leave the church, it came upon me all
at once that this was the nineteenth of March. It came upon me with a
kind of shock, as if a hand had struck the thought upon my forehead;
at the very same moment, I heard a voice outside the tower--rising from
among the graves.'

Here old John precipitately interrupted the speaker, and begged that if
Mr Parkes (who was seated opposite to him and was staring directly over
his head) saw anything, he would have the goodness to mention it. Mr
Parkes apologised, and remarked that he was only listening; to which Mr
Willet angrily retorted, that his listening with that kind of expression
in his face was not agreeable, and that if he couldn't look like other
people, he had better put his pocket-handkerchief over his head.
Mr Parkes with great submission pledged himself to do so, if again
required, and John Willet turning to Solomon desired him to proceed.
After waiting until a violent gust of wind and rain, which seemed to
shake even that sturdy house to its foundation, had passed away, the
little man complied:

'Never tell me that it was my fancy, or that it was any other sound
which I mistook for that I tell you of. I heard the wind whistle through
the arches of the church. I heard the steeple strain and creak. I heard
the rain as it came driving against the walls. I felt the bells shake. I
saw the ropes sway to and fro. And I heard that voice.'

'What did it say?' asked Tom Cobb.

'I don't know what; I don't know that it spoke. It gave a kind of cry,
as any one of us might do, if something dreadful followed us in a dream,
and came upon us unawares; and then it died off: seeming to pass quite
round the church.'

'I don't see much in that,' said John, drawing a long breath, and
looking round him like a man who felt relieved.

'Perhaps not,' returned his friend, 'but that's not all.'

'What more do you mean to say, sir, is to come?' asked John, pausing in
the act of wiping his face upon his apron. 'What are you a-going to tell
us of next?'

'What I saw.'

'Saw!' echoed all three, bending forward.

'When I opened the church-door to come out,' said the little man, with
an expression of face which bore ample testimony to the sincerity of
his conviction, 'when I opened the church-door to come out, which I did
suddenly, for I wanted to get it shut again before another gust of wind
came up, there crossed me--so close, that by stretching out my finger
I could have touched it--something in the likeness of a man. It was
bare-headed to the storm. It turned its face without stopping, and fixed
its eyes on mine. It was a ghost--a spirit.'

'Whose?' they all three cried together.

In the excess of his emotion (for he fell back trembling in his chair,
and waved his hand as if entreating them to question him no further),
his answer was lost on all but old John Willet, who happened to be
seated close beside him.

'Who!' cried Parkes and Tom Cobb, looking eagerly by turns at Solomon
Daisy and at Mr Willet. 'Who was it?'

'Gentlemen,' said Mr Willet after a long pause, 'you needn't ask. The
likeness of a murdered man. This is the nineteenth of March.'

A profound silence ensued.

'If you'll take my advice,' said John, 'we had better, one and all, keep
this a secret. Such tales would not be liked at the Warren. Let us keep
it to ourselves for the present time at all events, or we may get into
trouble, and Solomon may lose his place. Whether it was really as he
says, or whether it wasn't, is no matter. Right or wrong, nobody would
believe him. As to the probabilities, I don't myself think,' said Mr
Willet, eyeing the corners of the room in a manner which showed that,
like some other philosophers, he was not quite easy in his theory,
'that a ghost as had been a man of sense in his lifetime, would be out
a-walking in such weather--I only know that I wouldn't, if I was one.'

But this heretical doctrine was strongly opposed by the other three,
who quoted a great many precedents to show that bad weather was the very
time for such appearances; and Mr Parkes (who had had a ghost in his
family, by the mother's side) argued the matter with so much ingenuity
and force of illustration, that John was only saved from having to
retract his opinion by the opportune appearance of supper, to which they
applied themselves with a dreadful relish. Even Solomon Daisy himself,
by dint of the elevating influences of fire, lights, brandy, and good
company, so far recovered as to handle his knife and fork in a highly
creditable manner, and to display a capacity both of eating and
drinking, such as banished all fear of his having sust