roprietor, and all who aided and
abetted him, in the light of so many poachers among Christian men; and
believing, moreover, that the publicans coupled with sinners in Holy
Writ were veritable licensed victuallers; was far from being favourably
disposed towards her visitor. Wherefore she was taken faint directly;
and being duly presented with the crocuses and snowdrops, divined on
further consideration that they were the occasion of the languor which
had seized upon her spirits. 'I'm afraid I couldn't bear the room
another minute,' said the good lady, 'if they remained here. WOULD you
excuse my putting them out of window?'

Joe begged she wouldn't mention it on any account, and smiled feebly as
he saw them deposited on the sill outside. If anybody could have known
the pains he had taken to make up that despised and misused bunch of
flowers!--

'I feel it quite a relief to get rid of them, I assure you,' said Mrs
Varden. 'I'm better already.' And indeed she did appear to have plucked
up her spirits.

Joe expressed his gratitude to Providence for this favourable
dispensation, and tried to look as if he didn't wonder where Dolly was.

'You're sad people at Chigwell, Mr Joseph,' said Mrs V.

'I hope not, ma'am,' returned Joe.

'You're the cruellest and most inconsiderate people in the world,' said
Mrs Varden, bridling. 'I wonder old Mr Willet, having been a married
man himself, doesn't know better than to conduct himself as he does. His
doing it for profit is no excuse. I would rather pay the money twenty
times over, and have Varden come home like a respectable and sober
tradesman. If there is one character,' said Mrs Varden with great
emphasis, 'that offends and disgusts me more than another, it is a sot.'

'Come, Martha, my dear,' said the locksmith cheerily, 'let us have tea,
and don't let us talk about sots. There are none here, and Joe don't
want to hear about them, I dare say.'

At this crisis, Miggs appeared with toast.

'I dare say he does not,' said Mrs Varden; 'and I dare say you do not,
Varden. It's a very unpleasant subject, I have no doubt, though I
won't say it's personal'--Miggs coughed--'whatever I may be forced to
think'--Miggs sneezed expressively. 'You never will know, Varden, and
nobody at young Mr Willet's age--you'll excuse me, sir--can be expected
to know, what a woman suffers when she is waiting at home under such
circumstances. If you don't believe me, as I know you don't, here's
Miggs, who is only too often a witness of it--ask her.'

'Oh! she were very bad the other night, sir, indeed she were, said
Miggs. 'If you hadn't the sweetness of an angel in you, mim, I don't
think you could abear it, I raly don't.'

'Miggs,' said Mrs Varden, 'you're profane.'

'Begging your pardon, mim,' returned Miggs, with shrill rapidity, 'such
was not my intentions, and such I hope is not my character, though I am
but a servant.'

'Answering me, Miggs, and providing yourself,' retorted her mistress,
looking round with dignity, 'is one and the same thing. How
dare you speak of angels in connection with your sinful
fellow-beings--mere'--said Mrs Varden, glancing at herself in a
neighbouring mirror, and arranging the ribbon of her cap in a more
becoming fashion--'mere worms and grovellers as we are!'

'I did not intend, mim, if you please, to give offence,' said Miggs,
confident in the strength of her compliment, and developing strongly in
the throat as usual, 'and I did not expect it would be took as such. I
hope I know my own unworthiness, and that I hate and despise myself and
all my fellow-creatures as every practicable Christian should.'

'You'll have the goodness, if you please,' said Mrs Varden, loftily, 'to
step upstairs and see if Dolly has finished dressing, and to tell her
that the chair that was ordered for her will be here in a minute, and
that if she keeps it waiting, I shall send it away that instant.--I'm
sorry to see that you don't take your tea, Varden, and that you don't
take yours, Mr Joseph; though of course it would be foolish of me to
expect that anything that can be had at home, and in the company of
females, would please YOU.'

This pronoun was understood in the plural sense, and included both
gentlemen, upon both of whom it was rather hard and undeserved, for
Gabriel had applied himself to the meal with a very promising appetite,
until it was spoilt by Mrs Varden herself, and Joe had as great a liking
for the female society of the locksmith's house--or for a part of it at
all events--as man could well entertain.

But he had no opportunity to say anything in his own defence, for at
that moment Dolly herself appeared, and struck him quite dumb with her
beauty. Never had Dolly looked so handsome as she did then, in all the
glow and grace of youth, with all her charms increased a hundredfold by
a most becoming dress, by a thousand little coquettish ways which nobody
could assume with a better grace, and all the sparkling expectation of
that accursed party. It is impossible to tell how Joe hated that party
wherever it was, and all the other people who were going to it, whoever
they were.

And she hardly l