ome!'

'Ay!' said Lord George, 'let them! Let us see who will venture to attack
a power like ours; the solemn league of a whole people. THIS a madman!
You have said well, very well. I am proud to be the leader of such men
as you.'

Barnaby's heart swelled within his bosom as he heard these words. He took
Lord George's hand and carried it to his lips; patted his horse's crest,
as if the affection and admiration he had conceived for the man extended
to the animal he rode; then unfurling his flag, and proudly waving it,
resumed his pacing up and down.

Lord George, with a kindling eye and glowing cheek, took off his hat,
and flourishing it above his head, bade him exultingly Farewell!--then
cantered off at a brisk pace; after glancing angrily round to see that
his servant followed. Honest John set spurs to his horse and rode after
his master, but not before he had again warned Barnaby to retreat,
with many significant gestures, which indeed he continued to make, and
Barnaby to resist, until the windings of the road concealed them from
each other's view.

Left to himself again with a still higher sense of the importance of
his post, and stimulated to enthusiasm by the special notice and
encouragement of his leader, Barnaby walked to and fro in a delicious
trance rather than as a waking man. The sunshine which prevailed around
was in his mind. He had but one desire ungratified. If she could only
see him now!

The day wore on; its heat was gently giving place to the cool of
evening; a light wind sprung up, fanning his long hair, and making
the banner rustle pleasantly above his head. There was a freedom and
freshness in the sound and in the time, which chimed exactly with his
mood. He was happier than ever.

He was leaning on his staff looking towards the declining sun, and
reflecting with a smile that he stood sentinel at that moment over
buried gold, when two or three figures appeared in the distance, making
towards the house at a rapid pace, and motioning with their hands as
though they urged its inmates to retreat from some approaching danger.
As they drew nearer, they became more earnest in their gestures; and
they were no sooner within hearing, than the foremost among them cried
that the soldiers were coming up.

At these words, Barnaby furled his flag, and tied it round the pole. His
heart beat high while he did so, but he had no more fear or thought of
retreating than the pole itself. The friendly stragglers hurried past
him, after giving him notice of his danger, and quickly passed into the
house, where the utmost confusion immediately prevailed. As those within
hastily closed the windows and the doors, they urged him by looks and
signs to fly without loss of time, and called to him many times to do
so; but he only shook his head indignantly in answer, and stood the
firmer on his post. Finding that he was not to be persuaded, they took
care of themselves; and leaving the place with only one old woman in it,
speedily withdrew.

As yet there had been no symptom of the news having any better
foundation than in the fears of those who brought it, but The Boot had
not been deserted five minutes, when there appeared, coming across the
fields, a body of men who, it was easy to see, by the glitter of their
arms and ornaments in the sun, and by their orderly and regular mode of
advancing--for they came on as one man--were soldiers. In a very little
time, Barnaby knew that they were a strong detachment of the Foot
Guards, having along with them two gentlemen in private clothes, and a
small party of Horse; the latter brought up the rear, and were not in
number more than six or eight.

They advanced steadily; neither quickening their pace as they came
nearer, nor raising any cry, nor showing the least emotion or anxiety.
Though this was a matter of course in the case of regular troops,
even to Barnaby, there was something particularly impressive and
disconcerting in it to one accustomed to the noise and tumult of an
undisciplined mob. For all that, he stood his ground not a whit the less
resolutely, and looked on undismayed.

Presently, they marched into the yard, and halted. The
commanding-officer despatched a messenger to the horsemen, one of whom
came riding back. Some words passed between them, and they glanced at
Barnaby; who well remembered the man he had unhorsed at Westminster, and
saw him now before his eyes. The man being speedily dismissed, saluted,
and rode back to his comrades, who were drawn up apart at a short
distance.

The officer then gave the word to prime and load. The heavy ringing of
the musket-stocks upon the ground, and the sharp and rapid rattling of
the ramrods in their barrels, were a kind of relief to Barnaby, deadly
though he knew the purport of such sounds to be. When this was done,
other commands were given, and the soldiers instantaneously formed in
single file all round the house and stables; completely encircling them
in every part, at a distance, perhaps, of some half-dozen yards; at
least that seemed in Barnaby's eyes to be about the space left between
himself and those who confronted him. The horse