 had been gathering upon him for so many years. The
locksmith knew this, and when the chimes had ceased to vibrate, hurried
away to meet him.

'For these two men,' he said, as he went, 'I can do no more. Heaven have
mercy on them!--Alas! I say I can do no more for them, but whom can I
help? Mary Rudge will have a home, and a firm friend when she most wants
one; but Barnaby--poor Barnaby--willing Barnaby--what aid can I render
him? There are many, many men of sense, God forgive me,' cried the
honest locksmith, stopping in a narrow count to pass his hand across his
eyes, 'I could better afford to lose than Barnaby. We have always been
good friends, but I never knew, till now, how much I loved the lad.'

There were not many in the great city who thought of Barnaby that day,
otherwise than as an actor in a show which was to take place to-morrow.
But if the whole population had had him in their minds, and had wished
his life to be spared, not one among them could have done so with a
purer zeal or greater singleness of heart than the good locksmith.

Barnaby was to die. There was no hope. It is not the least evil
attendant upon the frequent exhibition of this last dread punishment,
of Death, that it hardens the minds of those who deal it out, and makes
them, though they be amiable men in other respects, indifferent to, or
unconscious of, their great responsibility. The word had gone forth that
Barnaby was to die. It went forth, every month, for lighter crimes.
It was a thing so common, that very few were startled by the awful
sentence, or cared to question its propriety. Just then, too, when the
law had been so flagrantly outraged, its dignity must be asserted.
The symbol of its dignity,--stamped upon every page of the criminal
statute-book,--was the gallows; and Barnaby was to die.

They had tried to save him. The locksmith had carried petitions and
memorials to the fountain-head, with his own hands. But the well was not
one of mercy, and Barnaby was to die.

From the first his mother had never left him, save at night; and with
her beside him, he was as usual contented. On this last day, he was more
elated and more proud than he had been yet; and when she dropped the
book she had been reading to him aloud, and fell upon his neck, he
stopped in his busy task of folding a piece of crape about his hat,
and wondered at her anguish. Grip uttered a feeble croak, half in
encouragement, it seemed, and half in remonstrance, but he wanted heart
to sustain it, and lapsed abruptly into silence.

With them who stood upon the brink of the great gulf which none can see
beyond, Time, so soon to lose itself in vast Eternity, rolled on like a
mighty river, swollen and rapid as it nears the sea. It was morning but
now; they had sat and talked together in a dream; and here was evening.
The dreadful hour of separation, which even yesterday had seemed so
distant, was at hand.

They walked out into the courtyard, clinging to each other, but not
speaking. Barnaby knew that the jail was a dull, sad, miserable place,
and looked forward to to-morrow, as to a passage from it to something
bright and beautiful. He had a vague impression too, that he was
expected to be brave--that he was a man of great consequence, and that
the prison people would be glad to make him weep. He trod the ground
more firmly as he thought of this, and bade her take heart and cry no
more, and feel how steady his hand was. 'They call me silly, mother.
They shall see to-morrow!'

Dennis and Hugh were in the courtyard. Hugh came forth from his cell as
they did, stretching himself as though he had been sleeping. Dennis sat
upon a bench in a corner, with his knees and chin huddled together, and
rocked himself to and fro like a person in severe pain.

The mother and son remained on one side of the court, and these two men
upon the other. Hugh strode up and down, glancing fiercely every now and
then at the bright summer sky, and looking round, when he had done so,
at the walls.

'No reprieve, no reprieve! Nobody comes near us. There's only the night
left now!' moaned Dennis faintly, as he wrung his hands. 'Do you think
they'll reprieve me in the night, brother? I've known reprieves come
in the night, afore now. I've known 'em come as late as five, six, and
seven o'clock in the morning. Don't you think there's a good chance
yet,--don't you? Say you do. Say you do, young man,' whined the
miserable creature, with an imploring gesture towards Barnaby, 'or I
shall go mad!'

'Better be mad than sane, here,' said Hugh. 'GO mad.'

'But tell me what you think. Somebody tell me what he thinks!' cried
the wretched object,--so mean, and wretched, and despicable, that even
Pity's self might have turned away, at sight of such a being in the
likeness of a man--'isn't there a chance for me,--isn't there a good
chance for me? Isn't it likely they may be doing this to frighten me?
Don't you think it is? Oh!' he almost shrieked, as he wrung his hands,
'won't anybody give me comfort!'

'You ought to be the best, instead of the worst,' said Hugh, stopping
before him. 'Ha, ha, ha! See the hangman, when it comes