as a
tobacco-stopper, and was silent again.

And so he sat for half an hour at least, although Dolly, in the most
endearing of manners, hoped, a dozen times, that he was not angry with
her. So he sat for half an hour, quite motionless, and looking all
the while like nothing so much as a great Dutch Pin or Skittle. At the
expiration of that period, he suddenly, and without the least notice,
burst (to the great consternation of the young people) into a very loud
and very short laugh; and repeating, 'Certainly, Joseph. Oh yes! Why
not?' went out for a walk.



Chapter 79


Old John did not walk near the Golden Key, for between the Golden Key
and the Black Lion there lay a wilderness of streets--as everybody
knows who is acquainted with the relative bearings of Clerkenwell and
Whitechapel--and he was by no means famous for pedestrian exercises.
But the Golden Key lies in our way, though it was out of his; so to the
Golden Key this chapter goes.

The Golden Key itself, fair emblem of the locksmith's trade, had been
pulled down by the rioters, and roughly trampled under foot. But, now,
it was hoisted up again in all the glory of a new coat of paint,
and shewed more bravely even than in days of yore. Indeed the whole
house-front was spruce and trim, and so freshened up throughout, that if
there yet remained at large any of the rioters who had been concerned in
the attack upon it, the sight of the old, goodly, prosperous dwelling,
so revived, must have been to them as gall and wormwood.

The shutters of the shop were closed, however, and the window-blinds
above were all pulled down, and in place of its usual cheerful
appearance, the house had a look of sadness and an air of mourning;
which the neighbours, who in old days had often seen poor Barnaby go in
and out, were at no loss to understand. The door stood partly open;
but the locksmith's hammer was unheard; the cat sat moping on the ashy
forge; all was deserted, dark, and silent.

On the threshold of this door, Mr Haredale and Edward Chester met. The
younger man gave place; and both passing in with a familiar air, which
seemed to denote that they were tarrying there, or were well-accustomed
to go to and fro unquestioned, shut it behind them.

Entering the old back-parlour, and ascending the flight of stairs,
abrupt and steep, and quaintly fashioned as of old, they turned into
the best room; the pride of Mrs Varden's heart, and erst the scene of
Miggs's household labours.

'Varden brought the mother here last evening, he told me?' said Mr
Haredale.

'She is above-stairs now--in the room over here,' Edward rejoined. 'Her
grief, they say, is past all telling. I needn't add--for that you know
beforehand, sir--that the care, humanity, and sympathy of these good
people have no bounds.'

'I am sure of that. Heaven repay them for it, and for much more! Varden
is out?'

'He returned with your messenger, who arrived almost at the moment of
his coming home himself. He was out the whole night--but that of course
you know. He was with you the greater part of it?'

'He was. Without him, I should have lacked my right hand. He is an older
man than I; but nothing can conquer him.'

'The cheeriest, stoutest-hearted fellow in the world.'

'He has a right to be. He has a right to he. A better creature never
lived. He reaps what he has sown--no more.'

'It is not all men,' said Edward, after a moment's hesitation, 'who have
the happiness to do that.'

'More than you imagine,' returned Mr Haredale. 'We note the harvest more
than the seed-time. You do so in me.'

In truth his pale and haggard face, and gloomy bearing, had so far
influenced the remark, that Edward was, for the moment, at a loss to
answer him.

'Tut, tut,' said Mr Haredale, ''twas not very difficult to read a
thought so natural. But you are mistaken nevertheless. I have had my
share of sorrows--more than the common lot, perhaps, but I have borne
them ill. I have broken where I should have bent; and have mused and
brooded, when my spirit should have mixed with all God's great creation.
The men who learn endurance, are they who call the whole world, brother.
I have turned FROM the world, and I pay the penalty.'

Edward would have interposed, but he went on without giving him time.

'It is too late to evade it now. I sometimes think, that if I had
to live my life once more, I might amend this fault--not so much, I
discover when I search my mind, for the love of what is right, as for my
own sake. But even when I make these better resolutions, I instinctively
recoil from the idea of suffering again what I have undergone; and in
this circumstance I find the unwelcome assurance that I should still be
the same man, though I could cancel the past, and begin anew, with its
experience to guide me.'

'Nay, you make too sure of that,' said Edward.

'You think so,' Mr Haredale answered, 'and I am glad you do. I know
myself better, and therefore distrust myself more. Let us leave this
subject for another--not so far removed from it as it might, at first
sight, seem to be. Sir, you still love my niece, and she is still
attached to you.'

'I have that as