udge's experience as the son of a
provincial doctor, had shown what class of man was before him?  Later,
unexpectedly, we learn that the Judge was a steady member for fourteen
years of the Royal Humane Society, of which institution he was also a
Vice-President.

But we now come to a most extraordinary thing--the result of the young
author's telling and most sarcastic portrait of the irascible little
judge.  It is curious that Forster, while enumerating various instances
of Boz's severe treatment of living persons, as a sort of chastisement
for their defects of manner or character, seems not to have thought of
this treatment of the judge--and passes it by.  Nor did he notice the
prompt result that followed on the sketch.  The report of the trial
appeared in the March number, 1837--and we are told, the luckless judge
retired from the Bench, shortly after the end of Hilary Term, that is in
April or the beginning of May.  We may assume that the poor gentleman
could not endure the jests of his _confreres_ or the scarcely concealed
tittering of the Barristers, all of whom had of course devoured and
enjoyed the number.  We may say that the learned Sergeant Buzfuz was not
likely to be affected in any way by _his_ picture; it may indeed have
added to his reputation.  I confess to some sympathy for the poor old
judge who was thus driven from the Bench.  Sam Foote was much given to
this sort of personal attack, and made the lives of some of his victims
wretched.  Boz, however, seems to have felt himself called upon to act
thus as public executioner on two occasions only.  After the fall of the
judge in June, 1837, he wanted a model for a tyrannical magistrate in
_Oliver Twist_--and Mr. Laing, the Hatton Garden Magistrate--a harsh,
ferocious personage, at once occurred to him.  He wrote accordingly to
one of his friends that he wished to be _smuggled_ into his office some
morning to study him.  This "smuggling" of course meant the placing him
where he would not be observed--as a magistrate knowing his "sketches"
might recognise him.  "I know the man perfectly well" he added.  So he
did, for he forgot that he had introduced him already in _Pickwick_ as
Nupkins--whose talk is exactly alike, in places almost word for word to
that of "Mr. Fang."

These palliations, Boz, a young fellow of three and twenty or so, did not
pause to weigh.  He only saw a testy, red-faced old fellow with goggle
eyes, and seventy-four years old, and past his work.  His infirmities
already made him incapable of carrying through the business of the Court
as the mistake, "Is it Daniel Nathaniel or Nathaniel Daniel?" shows.  It
is curious, however, that this weakness of misapprehending names is
described of another judge, Arabin--a strange grotesque.  Theodore Hook
gives an amusing specimen in his Gilbert Gurney.

From the general description in the text, it is evident Stareleigh was
the prey of gouty affections--which swelled him into grotesque shape, and
he found himself unequal to the office.  He died two years after his
retirement at No. 13, Montagu Place, Russell Square; so that the Judge in
Bardell _v._ Pickwick was living close to Perker the Attorney in the same
case.  Here we seem to mix up the fictional and the living characters,
but this is the law of _Pickwick_--the confines between the two worlds
being quite confused or broken down.  The late commander of our forces in
China, Sir A. Gaselee, is of this family.  It should be remembered,
however, when we think of this judge's frowardness, that judges in those
times were dictatorial and carried matters with a high hand.  There were
often angry conflicts between them, and members of the Bar, and
Stareleigh was really not so very tyrannical.  He did what so many judges
do--took a side from the first, and had decided in his own mind that Mr.
Pickwick could not possibly have a case.  That curious form of address
from the Bench is now no longer heard--"who is with you, _Brother
Buzfuz_?"  Judges and sergeants were then common members of the
Guild--both wore the "coif."




THE COURT.


When the swearing of the jury is going on, how good, and how natural is
the scene with the unfortunate chemist.

    'Answer to your names, gentlemen that you may be sworn,' said the
    gentleman in black.  'Richard Upwitch.'

    'Here,' said the greengrocer.

    'Thomas Groffin.'

    'Here,' said the chemist.

    'Take the book, gentlemen.  You shall well and truly try--'

    'I beg this court's pardon,' said the chemist, who was a tall, thin,
    yellow-visaged man, 'but I hope this court will excuse my
    attendance.'

    'On what grounds, sir?' replied Mr. Justice Stareleigh.

    'I have no assistant, my Lord,' said the chemist.

    'I can't help that, sir,' replied Mr. Justice Stareleigh.  'You
    should hire one.'

    'I can't afford it, my Lord,' rejoined the chemist.

    'Then you ought to be able to afford it, sir,' said the judge,
    reddening; for Mr. Justice Stareleigh's temper bordered on the
    irritable, and brooked not contradiction.

    'I know I _ought_ to do, if I got on as well as I deserved, but 