ppressed voice:

'Let me go. Do not lay hands upon me. You have told her; and you and she
together have betrayed me!'

Barnaby looked at him, in silence.

'You have seen your mother!'

'No,' cried Barnaby, eagerly. 'Not for a long time--longer than I can
tell. A whole year, I think. Is she here?'

His father looked upon him steadfastly for a few moments, and then
said--drawing nearer to him as he spoke, for, seeing his face, and
hearing his words, it was impossible to doubt his truth:

'What man is that?'

'Hugh--Hugh. Only Hugh. You know him. HE will not harm you. Why, you're
afraid of Hugh! Ha ha ha! Afraid of gruff, old, noisy Hugh!'

'What man is he, I ask you,' he rejoined so fiercely, that Barnaby
stopped in his laugh, and shrinking back, surveyed him with a look of
terrified amazement.

'Why, how stern you are! You make me fear you, though you are my father.
Why do you speak to me so?'

--'I want,' he answered, putting away the hand which his son, with
a timid desire to propitiate him, laid upon his sleeve,--'I want an
answer, and you give me only jeers and questions. Who have you brought
with you to this hiding-place, poor fool; and where is the blind man?'

'I don't know where. His house was close shut. I waited, but no person
came; that was no fault of mine. This is Hugh--brave Hugh, who broke
into that ugly jail, and set us free. Aha! You like him now, do you? You
like him now!'

'Why does he lie upon the ground?'

'He has had a fall, and has been drinking. The fields and trees go
round, and round, and round with him, and the ground heaves under his
feet. You know him? You remember? See!'

They had by this time returned to where he lay, and both stooped over
him to look into his face.

'I recollect the man,' his father murmured. 'Why did you bring him
here?'

'Because he would have been killed if I had left him over yonder. They
were firing guns and shedding blood. Does the sight of blood turn you
sick, father? I see it does, by your face. That's like me--What are you
looking at?'

'At nothing!' said the murderer softly, as he started back a pace or
two, and gazed with sunken jaw and staring eyes above his son's head.
'At nothing!'

He remained in the same attitude and with the same expression on his
face for a minute or more; then glanced slowly round as if he had lost
something; and went shivering back, towards the shed.

'Shall I bring him in, father?' asked Barnaby, who had looked on,
wondering.

He only answered with a suppressed groan, and lying down upon the
ground, wrapped his cloak about his head, and shrunk into the darkest
corner.

Finding that nothing would rouse Hugh now, or make him sensible for a
moment, Barnaby dragged him along the grass, and laid him on a little
heap of refuse hay and straw which had been his own bed; first having
brought some water from a running stream hard by, and washed his wound,
and laved his hands and face. Then he lay down himself, between the two,
to pass the night; and looking at the stars, fell fast asleep.

Awakened early in the morning, by the sunshine and the songs of birds,
and hum of insects, he left them sleeping in the hut, and walked into
the sweet and pleasant air. But he felt that on his jaded senses,
oppressed and burdened with the dreadful scenes of last night, and many
nights before, all the beauties of opening day, which he had so often
tasted, and in which he had had such deep delight, fell heavily. He
thought of the blithe mornings when he and the dogs went bounding on
together through the woods and fields; and the recollection filled his
eyes with tears. He had no consciousness, God help him, of having done
wrong, nor had he any new perception of the merits of the cause in which
he had been engaged, or those of the men who advocated it; but he was
full of cares now, and regrets, and dismal recollections, and wishes
(quite unknown to him before) that this or that event had never
happened, and that the sorrow and suffering of so many people had been
spared. And now he began to think how happy they would be--his father,
mother, he, and Hugh--if they rambled away together, and lived in some
lonely place, where there were none of these troubles; and that perhaps
the blind man, who had talked so wisely about gold, and told him of
the great secrets he knew, could teach them how to live without being
pinched by want. As this occurred to him, he was the more sorry that he
had not seen him last night; and he was still brooding over this regret,
when his father came, and touched him on the shoulder.

'Ah!' cried Barnaby, starting from his fit of thoughtfulness. 'Is it
only you?'

'Who should it be?'

'I almost thought,' he answered, 'it was the blind man. I must have some
talk with him, father.'

'And so must I, for without seeing him, I don't know where to fly or
what to do, and lingering here, is death. You must go to him again, and
bring him here.'

'Must I!' cried Barnaby, delighted; 'that's brave, father. That's what I
want to do.'

'But you must bring only him, and none other. And though you wait at
his door a whole day and night, still you must wait, and n