er Harry's father goes in, goes up to the bedside,
bends gently down, and kisses the little sleeping face. Then he stands
looking at it for a moment, looking wonderfully like it; and then he
gently shakes the little shoulder. 'Harry, my dear boy! Harry!'

"Master Harry starts up and looks at his pa. Such is the honor of that
mite, that he looks at me, too, to see whether he has brought me into
trouble.

"'I am not angry, my child. I only want you to dress yourself and come
home.'

"'Yes, Pa.' Master Harry dresses himself quick.

"'Please may I--please, dear pa--may I--kiss Norah before I go?'

"Master Harry's father he takes Master Harry in his hand, and I leads
the way with the candle to that other bedroom where the elderly lady is
seated by the bed, and poor little Mrs. Harry Walmers junior is fast
asleep. There the father lifts the boy up to the pillow, and he lays his
little face down for an instant by the little warm face of poor little
Mrs. Harry Walmers junior, and gently draws it to him.

"And that's all about it. Master Harry's father drove away in the chaise
having hold of Master Harry's hand. The elderly lady Mrs. Harry Walmers
junior that was never to be (she married a captain long after and went
to India) went off next day."




POOR JO!


Jo was a crossing-sweeper; every day he swept up the mud, and begged for
pennies from the people who passed. Poor Jo wasn't pretty and he wasn't
clean. His clothes were only a few poor rags that hardly protected him
from the cold and the rain. He had never been to school, and he could
neither write nor read--could not even spell his own name.

Poor Jo! He was ugly and dirty and ignorant; but he knew one thing, that
it was wicked to tell a lie, and knowing this, he always told the truth.
One other thing poor Jo knew too well, and that was what being hungry
means. For little Jo was very poor. He lived in Tom-all-Alones, one of
the most horrible places in all London. The people who live in this
dreadful den are the poorest of London poor. All miserably clad, all
dirty, all very hungry. They know and like Jo, for he is always willing
to go on errands for them, and does them many little acts of kindness.

No one in Tom-all-Alones is spoken of by his name. Thus it is that if
you inquired there for a boy named Jo, you would be asked whether you
meant Carrots, or the Colonel, or Gallows, or young Chisel, or Terrier
Tip, or Lanky, or the Brick.

Jo was generally called Toughy, although a few superior persons who
affected a dignified style of speaking called him "the tough subject."

Jo used to say he had never had but one friend.

It was one cold Winter night, when he was shivering in a door-way near
his crossing, that a dark-haired, rough-bearded man turned to look at
him, and then came back and began to talk to him.

"Have you a friend, boy?" he asked presently.

"No, never 'ad none."

"Neither have I. Not one. Take this, and Good-night," and so saying the
man, who looked very poor and shabby, put into Jo's hand the price of a
supper and a night's lodging.

Often afterwards the stranger would stop to talk with Jo, and give him
money, Jo firmly believed, whenever he had any to give. When he had
none, he would merely say, "I am as poor as you are to-day, Jo," and
pass on.

One day, Jo was fetched away from his crossing to a public-house, where
the Coroner was holding an Inquest--an "Inkwich" Jo called it.

"Did the boy know the deceased?" asked the Coroner.

Indeed Jo had known him; it was his only friend who was dead.

"He was very good to me, he was," was all poor Jo could say.

The next day they buried the dead man in the churchyard hard by.

But that night there came a slouching figure through the court to the
iron gate. It stood looking in for a little while, then with an old
broom it softly swept the step and made the archway clean. It was poor
Jo; and as he went away, he softly said to himself, "He was very good to
me, he was."

Now, there happened to be at the Inquest a kind-hearted little man named
Snagsby, and he pitied Jo so much that he gave him half-a-crown.

Jo was very sad after the death of his one friend. The more so as his
friend had died in great poverty and misery, with no one near him to
care whether he lived or not.

A few days after the funeral, while Jo was still living on Mr. Snagsby's
half-crown, he was standing at his crossing as the day closed in, when a
lady, closely veiled and plainly dressed, came up to him.

"Are you the boy Jo who was examined at the Inquest?" she asked.

"That's me," said Jo.

"Come farther up the court, I want to speak to you."

"Wot, about him as was dead? Did you know him?"

"How dare you ask me if I knew him?"

"No offence, my lady," said Jo humbly.

"Listen and hold your tongue. Show me the place where he lived, then
where he died, then where they buried him. Go in front of me, don't look
back once, and I'll pay you well."

  [Illustration: JO AND THE POLICEMAN.
  "I'M ALWAYS A MOVING ON."]

Jo takes her to each of the places she wants to see. Then she draws off
her glove, and Jo sees that she has sparkling rings on her fingers. S