 Gashford--did I really say all that?'

'And how much more!' cried the secretary, looking upwards. 'Ah! how much
more!'

'And I told them what you say, about the one hundred and forty thousand
men in Scotland, did I!' he asked with evident delight. 'That was bold.'

'Our cause is boldness. Truth is always bold.'

'Certainly. So is religion. She's bold, Gashford?'

'The true religion is, my lord.'

'And that's ours,' he rejoined, moving uneasily in his seat, and biting
his nails as though he would pare them to the quick. 'There can be no
doubt of ours being the true one. You feel as certain of that as I do,
Gashford, don't you?'

'Does my lord ask ME,' whined Gashford, drawing his chair nearer with
an injured air, and laying his broad flat hand upon the table; 'ME,'
he repeated, bending the dark hollows of his eyes upon him with an
unwholesome smile, 'who, stricken by the magic of his eloquence in
Scotland but a year ago, abjured the errors of the Romish church, and
clung to him as one whose timely hand had plucked me from a pit?'

'True. No--No. I--I didn't mean it,' replied the other, shaking him by
the hand, rising from his seat, and pacing restlessly about the room.
'It's a proud thing to lead the people, Gashford,' he added as he made a
sudden halt.

'By force of reason too,' returned the pliant secretary.

'Ay, to be sure. They may cough and jeer, and groan in Parliament, and
call me fool and madman, but which of them can raise this human sea and
make it swell and roar at pleasure? Not one.'

'Not one,' repeated Gashford.

'Which of them can say for his honesty, what I can say for mine; which
of them has refused a minister's bribe of one thousand pounds a year, to
resign his seat in favour of another? Not one.'

'Not one,' repeated Gashford again--taking the lion's share of the
mulled wine between whiles.

'And as we are honest, true, and in a sacred cause, Gashford,' said Lord
George with a heightened colour and in a louder voice, as he laid his
fevered hand upon his shoulder, 'and are the only men who regard the
mass of people out of doors, or are regarded by them, we will uphold
them to the last; and will raise a cry against these un-English Papists
which shall re-echo through the country, and roll with a noise like
thunder. I will be worthy of the motto on my coat of arms, "Called and
chosen and faithful."

'Called,' said the secretary, 'by Heaven.'

'I am.'

'Chosen by the people.'

'Yes.'

'Faithful to both.'

'To the block!'

It would be difficult to convey an adequate idea of the excited manner
in which he gave these answers to the secretary's promptings; of the
rapidity of his utterance, or the violence of his tone and gesture; in
which, struggling through his Puritan's demeanour, was something wild
and ungovernable which broke through all restraint. For some minutes he
walked rapidly up and down the room, then stopping suddenly, exclaimed,

'Gashford--YOU moved them yesterday too. Oh yes! You did.'

'I shone with a reflected light, my lord,' replied the humble secretary,
laying his hand upon his heart. 'I did my best.'

'You did well,' said his master, 'and are a great and worthy instrument.
If you will ring for John Grueby to carry the portmanteau into my room,
and will wait here while I undress, we will dispose of business as
usual, if you're not too tired.'

'Too tired, my lord!--But this is his consideration! Christian from head
to foot.' With which soliloquy, the secretary tilted the jug, and looked
very hard into the mulled wine, to see how much remained.

John Willet and John Grueby appeared together. The one bearing the great
candlesticks, and the other the portmanteau, showed the deluded lord
into his chamber; and left the secretary alone, to yawn and shake
himself, and finally to fall asleep before the fire.

'Now, Mr Gashford sir,' said John Grueby in his ear, after what appeared
to him a moment of unconsciousness; 'my lord's abed.'

'Oh. Very good, John,' was his mild reply. 'Thank you, John. Nobody need
sit up. I know my room.'

'I hope you're not a-going to trouble your head to-night, or my lord's
head neither, with anything more about Bloody Mary,' said John. 'I wish
the blessed old creetur had never been born.'

'I said you might go to bed, John,' returned the secretary. 'You didn't
hear me, I think.'

'Between Bloody Marys, and blue cockades, and glorious Queen Besses,
and no Poperys, and Protestant associations, and making of speeches,'
pursued John Grueby, looking, as usual, a long way off, and taking no
notice of this hint, 'my lord's half off his head. When we go out o'
doors, such a set of ragamuffins comes a-shouting after us, "Gordon
forever!" that I'm ashamed of myself and don't know where to look. When
we're indoors, they come a-roaring and screaming about the house like so
many devils; and my lord instead of ordering them to be drove away, goes
out into the balcony and demeans himself by making speeches to 'em, and
calls 'em "Men of England," and "Fellow-countrymen," as if he was fond
of 'em and thanked 'em for coming. I can't make it out, but they're all
mixed up somehow or another 