hey couldn't find,
darted down haphazard on the first young man that caught their fancy,
and settled on him instead. However this may be, certain it is that on
the very day of Joe's departure they swarmed about the ears of Edward
Chester, and did so buzz and flap their wings, and persecute him, that
he was most profoundly wretched.

It was evening, and just eight o'clock, when he and his father, having
wine and dessert set before them, were left to themselves for the first
time that day. They had dined together, but a third person had been
present during the meal, and until they met at table they had not seen
each other since the previous night.

Edward was reserved and silent. Mr Chester was more than usually gay;
but not caring, as it seemed, to open a conversation with one whose
humour was so different, he vented the lightness of his spirit in smiles
and sparkling looks, and made no effort to awaken his attention. So they
remained for some time: the father lying on a sofa with his accustomed
air of graceful negligence; the son seated opposite to him with downcast
eyes, busied, it was plain, with painful and uneasy thoughts.

'My dear Edward,' said Mr Chester at length, with a most engaging laugh,
'do not extend your drowsy influence to the decanter. Suffer THAT to
circulate, let your spirits be never so stagnant.'

Edward begged his pardon, passed it, and relapsed into his former state.

'You do wrong not to fill your glass,' said Mr Chester, holding up his
own before the light. 'Wine in moderation--not in excess, for that makes
men ugly--has a thousand pleasant influences. It brightens the eye,
improves the voice, imparts a new vivacity to one's thoughts and
conversation: you should try it, Ned.'

'Ah father!' cried his son, 'if--'

'My good fellow,' interposed the parent hastily, as he set down his
glass, and raised his eyebrows with a startled and horrified expression,
'for Heaven's sake don't call me by that obsolete and ancient name. Have
some regard for delicacy. Am I grey, or wrinkled, do I go on crutches,
have I lost my teeth, that you adopt such a mode of address? Good God,
how very coarse!'

'I was about to speak to you from my heart, sir,' returned Edward, 'in
the confidence which should subsist between us; and you check me in the
outset.'

'Now DO, Ned, DO not,' said Mr Chester, raising his delicate hand
imploringly, 'talk in that monstrous manner. About to speak from
your heart. Don't you know that the heart is an ingenious part of
our formation--the centre of the blood-vessels and all that sort of
thing--which has no more to do with what you say or think, than your
knees have? How can you be so very vulgar and absurd? These anatomical
allusions should be left to gentlemen of the medical profession. They
are really not agreeable in society. You quite surprise me, Ned.'

'Well! there are no such things to wound, or heal, or have regard for. I
know your creed, sir, and will say no more,' returned his son.

'There again,' said Mr Chester, sipping his wine, 'you are wrong. I
distinctly say there are such things. We know there are. The hearts of
animals--of bullocks, sheep, and so forth--are cooked and devoured, as
I am told, by the lower classes, with a vast deal of relish. Men are
sometimes stabbed to the heart, shot to the heart; but as to speaking
from the heart, or to the heart, or being warm-hearted, or cold-hearted,
or broken-hearted, or being all heart, or having no heart--pah! these
things are nonsense, Ned.'

'No doubt, sir,' returned his son, seeing that he paused for him to
speak. 'No doubt.'

'There's Haredale's niece, your late flame,' said Mr Chester, as a
careless illustration of his meaning. 'No doubt in your mind she was all
heart once. Now she has none at all. Yet she is the same person, Ned,
exactly.'

'She is a changed person, sir,' cried Edward, reddening; 'and changed by
vile means, I believe.'

'You have had a cool dismissal, have you?' said his father. 'Poor Ned!
I told you last night what would happen.--May I ask you for the
nutcrackers?'

'She has been tampered with, and most treacherously deceived,' cried
Edward, rising from his seat. 'I never will believe that the knowledge
of my real position, given her by myself, has worked this change. I know
she is beset and tortured. But though our contract is at an end, and
broken past all redemption; though I charge upon her want of firmness
and want of truth, both to herself and me; I do not now, and never will
believe, that any sordid motive, or her own unbiassed will, has led her
to this course--never!'

'You make me blush,' returned his father gaily, 'for the folly of your
nature, in which--but we never know ourselves--I devoutly hope there is
no reflection of my own. With regard to the young lady herself, she has
done what is very natural and proper, my dear fellow; what you yourself
proposed, as I learn from Haredale; and what I predicted--with no great
exercise of sagacity--she would do. She supposed you to be rich, or
at least quite rich enough; and found you poor. Marriage is a civil
contract; people marry to better their worldly condit