ry
evidence, and lastly, on a damaging incident disclosed by Winkle.

The first witness "put in the box," was Mrs. Martha Cluppins--an intimate
friend of the plaintiffs.

We know that she was sister to Mrs. Raddle, who lived far away in
Southwark, and was the landlady of Mr. Sawyer.  She might have been
cross-examined with effect as to her story that she had been "out buying
kidney pertaties," etc.  Why buy these articles in Goswell Street and
come all the way from Southwark?  What was she doing there at all?  This
question could have been answered only in one way--which was that the
genial author fancied at the moment she was living near Mrs. Bardell.

Besides this, there was another point which Snubbin, in
cross-examination, ought to have driven home.  Mrs. Cluppins was of an
inferior type, of the common washerwoman or "charing" sort; her language
was of Mrs. Gamp's kind; "which her name was" so and so.  Yet, this
creature, in another room, or on the stairs, the door being "on the jar,"
can repeat with her limited appreciation, those dubious and imperfect
utterances of Mr. Pickwick!  How could she remember all?  Or could she
understand them?  Impossible!  She, however, may have caught up
something.

Winkle, too, said he heard something as he came up the stairs--"Compose
yourself my dear creature, for consider if any one were to come," etc.
But what could be the value of evidence heard in this way?  Would a jury
believe it?  "Not only," as Sam said, "is 'wision limited,'" but hearing
also.

In short, the delicate subtleties of the conversation between Mr.
Pickwick and Mrs. Bardell would be wholly lost in her hands.  Persons of
her class know nothing of suggestion or double meanings or reserved
intention, everything for them must be in black and white.  How unlikely,
therefore, that through the panels of a door or through the half opened
door, ("she said on the jar,") could she catch the phrases and their
meanings, and, above all, retain them in her memory?  No doubt, as the
counsel put it bluntly, she listened, and with all her ears.

However this may be, here is what Mrs. Cluppins deposed to:

    'Mrs. Cluppins,' said Serjeant Buzfuz, 'pray compose yoursel, ma'am;'
    and, of course, directly Mrs. Cluppins was desired to compose herself
    she sobbed with increased violence, and gave divers alarming
    manifestations of an approaching fainting fit, or, as she afterwards
    said, of her feelings being too many for her.

    'Do you recollect, Mrs. Cluppins?' said Serjeant Buzfuz, after a few
    unimportant questions--'do you recollect being in Mrs. Bardell's back
    one pair of stairs, on one particular morning in July last, when she
    was dusting Mr. Pickwick's apartment?'

    'Yes, my Lord and jury, I do,' replied Mrs. Cluppins.

    'Mr. Pickwick's sitting-room was the first floor front, I believe?'

    'Yes it were, sir,' replied Mrs. Cluppins.

    'What were you doing in the back room, ma'am?' inquired the little
    judge.

    'My Lord and jury,' said Mrs. Cluppins, with interesting agitation,
    'I will not deceive you.'

    'You had better not, ma'am,' said the little judge.

    'I was there,' resumed Mrs. Cluppins, 'unbeknown to Mrs. Bardell; I
    had been out with a little basket, gentlemen, to buy three pounds of
    red kidney pertaties, which was three pound, tuppense ha'penny, when
    I see Mrs. Bardell's street door on the jar.'

    'On the what?' exclaimed the little judge.

    'Partly open, my Lord,' said Serjeant Snubbin.

    'She _said_ on the jar,' said the little judge with a cunning look.

    'It's all the same, my lord,' said Serjeant Snubbin.  The little
    judge looked doubtful, and said he'd make a note of it.  Mrs.
    Cluppins then resumed--

    'I walked in, gentlemen, just to say good mornin', and went in a
    permiscuous manner up-stairs, and into the back room.  Gentlemen,
    there was the sound of voices in the front room, and--'

    'And you listened, I believe, Mrs. Cluppins,' said Serjeant Buzfuz.

    'Beggin' your pardon, sir,' replied Mrs. Cluppins, in a majestic
    manner, 'I would scorn the haction.  The voices was very loud, sir,
    and forced themselves upon my ear.'

    'Well, Mrs. Cluppins, you were not listening, but you heard the
    voices.  Was one of those voices Mr. Pickwick's?'

    'Yes, it were, sir.'

    And Mrs. Cluppins, after distinctly stating that Mr. Pickwick
    addressed himself to Mrs. Bardell, repeated by slow degrees, and by
    dint of many questions the conversation with which our readers are
    already acquainted.

Now we have to turn back to one of the earlier passages in the story for
the conversation between the pair, "with which the reader is already
acquainted."  Thus we shall know what Mrs. Cluppin's might have heard.

    Mr. Pickwick paced the room to and fro with hurried steps, popped his
    head out of the window at intervals of about three minutes each,
    constantly referred to his watch, and exhibited many other
    manifestations of impatience, very unusual with him.  It was evident
    that something of grea