ilns, who had not their
accustomed place of rest beneath the open sky. As to the public ways
within the town, they had their ordinary nightly occupants, and no
others; the usual amount of vice and wretchedness, but no more.

The experience of one evening, however, had taught the reckless leaders
of disturbance, that they had but to show themselves in the streets, to
be immediately surrounded by materials which they could only have kept
together when their aid was not required, at great risk, expense, and
trouble. Once possessed of this secret, they were as confident as if
twenty thousand men, devoted to their will, had been encamped about
them, and assumed a confidence which could not have been surpassed,
though that had really been the case. All day, Saturday, they remained
quiet. On Sunday, they rather studied how to keep their men within call,
and in full hope, than to follow out, by any fierce measure, their first
day's proceedings.

'I hope,' said Dennis, as, with a loud yawn, he raised his body from
a heap of straw on which he had been sleeping, and supporting his head
upon his hand, appealed to Hugh on Sunday morning, 'that Muster Gashford
allows some rest? Perhaps he'd have us at work again already, eh?'

'It's not his way to let matters drop, you may be sure of that,' growled
Hugh in answer. 'I'm in no humour to stir yet, though. I'm as stiff as
a dead body, and as full of ugly scratches as if I had been fighting all
day yesterday with wild cats.'

'You've so much enthusiasm, that's it,' said Dennis, looking with great
admiration at the uncombed head, matted beard, and torn hands and face
of the wild figure before him; 'you're such a devil of a fellow. You
hurt yourself a hundred times more than you need, because you will be
foremost in everything, and will do more than the rest.'

'For the matter of that,' returned Hugh, shaking back his ragged hair
and glancing towards the door of the stable in which they lay; 'there's
one yonder as good as me. What did I tell you about him? Did I say he
was worth a dozen, when you doubted him?'

Mr Dennis rolled lazily over upon his breast, and resting his chin upon
his hand in imitation of the attitude in which Hugh lay, said, as he too
looked towards the door:

'Ay, ay, you knew him, brother, you knew him. But who'd suppose to look
at that chap now, that he could be the man he is! Isn't it a thousand
cruel pities, brother, that instead of taking his nat'ral rest and
qualifying himself for further exertions in this here honourable cause,
he should be playing at soldiers like a boy? And his cleanliness too!'
said Mr Dennis, who certainly had no reason to entertain a fellow
feeling with anybody who was particular on that score; 'what weaknesses
he's guilty of; with respect to his cleanliness! At five o'clock this
morning, there he was at the pump, though any one would think he had
gone through enough, the day before yesterday, to be pretty fast asleep
at that time. But no--when I woke for a minute or two, there he was at
the pump, and if you'd seen him sticking them peacock's feathers into
his hat when he'd done washing--ah! I'm sorry he's such a imperfect
character, but the best on us is incomplete in some pint of view or
another.'

The subject of this dialogue and of these concluding remarks, which were
uttered in a tone of philosophical meditation, was, as the reader will
have divined, no other than Barnaby, who, with his flag in hand, stood
sentry in the little patch of sunlight at the distant door, or walked
to and fro outside, singing softly to himself; and keeping time to the
music of some clear church bells. Whether he stood still, leaning with
both hands on the flagstaff, or, bearing it upon his shoulder, paced
slowly up and down, the careful arrangement of his poor dress, and his
erect and lofty bearing, showed how high a sense he had of the great
importance of his trust, and how happy and how proud it made him. To
Hugh and his companion, who lay in a dark corner of the gloomy shed,
he, and the sunlight, and the peaceful Sabbath sound to which he made
response, seemed like a bright picture framed by the door, and set
off by the stable's blackness. The whole formed such a contrast to
themselves, as they lay wallowing, like some obscene animals, in their
squalor and wickedness on the two heaps of straw, that for a few moments
they looked on without speaking, and felt almost ashamed.

'Ah!'said Hugh at length, carrying it off with a laugh: 'He's a rare
fellow is Barnaby, and can do more, with less rest, or meat, or drink,
than any of us. As to his soldiering, I put him on duty there.'

'Then there was a object in it, and a proper good one too, I'll be
sworn,' retorted Dennis with a broad grin, and an oath of the same
quality. 'What was it, brother?'

'Why, you see,' said Hugh, crawling a little nearer to him, 'that our
noble captain yonder, came in yesterday morning rather the worse for
liquor, and was--like you and me--ditto last night.'

Dennis looked to where Simon Tappertit lay coiled upon a truss of hay,
snoring profoundly, and nodded.

'And our noble captain,' continu