th what object have I made my way
to this place, through difficulty and danger, but to preserve you?'

With a joy for which it was impossible to find adequate expression, they
embraced each other, and thanked Heaven for this most timely aid. Their
deliverer stepped forward for a moment to put the light upon the table,
and immediately returning to his former position against the door, bared
his head, and looked on smilingly.

'You have news of my uncle, sir?' said Emma, turning hastily towards
him.

'And of my father and mother?' added Dolly.

'Yes,' he said. 'Good news.'

'They are alive and unhurt?' they both cried at once.

'Yes, and unhurt,' he rejoined.

'And close at hand?'

'I did not say close at hand,' he answered smoothly; 'they are at no
great distance. YOUR friends, sweet one,' he added, addressing Dolly,
'are within a few hours' journey. You will be restored to them, I hope,
to-night.'

'My uncle, sir--' faltered Emma.

'Your uncle, dear Miss Haredale, happily--I say happily, because he has
succeeded where many of our creed have failed, and is safe--has crossed
the sea, and is out of Britain.'

'I thank God for it,' said Emma, faintly.

'You say well. You have reason to be thankful: greater reason than it is
possible for you, who have seen but one night of these cruel outrages,
to imagine.'

'Does he desire,' said Emma, 'that I should follow him?'

'Do you ask if he desires it?' cried the stranger in surprise. 'IF he
desires it! But you do not know the danger of remaining in England,
the difficulty of escape, or the price hundreds would pay to secure the
means, when you make that inquiry. Pardon me. I had forgotten that you
could not, being prisoner here.'

'I gather, sir,' said Emma, after a moment's pause, 'from what you hint
at, but fear to tell me, that I have witnessed but the beginning, and
the least, of the violence to which we are exposed, and that it has not
yet slackened in its fury?'

He shrugged his shoulders, shook his head, lifted up his hands; and with
the same smooth smile, which was not a pleasant one to see, cast his
eyes upon the ground, and remained silent.

'You may venture, sir, to speak plain,' said Emma, 'and to tell me the
worst. We have undergone some preparation for it.'

But here Dolly interposed, and entreated her not to hear the worst, but
the best; and besought the gentleman to tell them the best, and to
keep the remainder of his news until they were safe among their friends
again.

'It is told in three words,' he said, glancing at the locksmith's
daughter with a look of some displeasure. 'The people have risen, to a
man, against us; the streets are filled with soldiers, who support
them and do their bidding. We have no protection but from above, and no
safety but in flight; and that is a poor resource; for we are watched on
every hand, and detained here, both by force and fraud. Miss Haredale,
I cannot bear--believe me, that I cannot bear--by speaking of myself,
or what I have done, or am prepared to do, to seem to vaunt my services
before you. But, having powerful Protestant connections, and having my
whole wealth embarked with theirs in shipping and commerce, I happily
possessed the means of saving your uncle. I have the means of saving
you; and in redemption of my sacred promise, made to him, I am here;
pledged not to leave you until I have placed you in his arms. The
treachery or penitence of one of the men about you, led to the discovery
of your place of confinement; and that I have forced my way here, sword
in hand, you see.'

'You bring,' said Emma, faltering, 'some note or token from my uncle?'

'No, he doesn't,' cried Dolly, pointing at him earnestly; 'now I am sure
he doesn't. Don't go with him for the world!'

'Hush, pretty fool--be silent,' he replied, frowning angrily upon her.
'No, Miss Haredale, I have no letter, nor any token of any kind; for
while I sympathise with you, and such as you, on whom misfortune so
heavy and so undeserved has fallen, I value my life. I carry, therefore,
no writing which, found upon me, would lead to its certain loss. I
never thought of bringing any other token, nor did Mr Haredale think of
entrusting me with one--possibly because he had good experience of my
faith and honesty, and owed his life to me.'

There was a reproof conveyed in these words, which to a nature like
Emma Haredale's, was well addressed. But Dolly, who was differently
constituted, was by no means touched by it, and still conjured her, in
all the terms of affection and attachment she could think of, not to be
lured away.

'Time presses,' said their visitor, who, although he sought to express
the deepest interest, had something cold and even in his speech, that
grated on the ear; 'and danger surrounds us. If I have exposed myself to
it, in vain, let it be so; but if you and he should ever meet again, do
me justice. If you decide to remain (as I think you do), remember, Miss
Haredale, that I left you with a solemn caution, and acquitting myself
of all the consequences to which you expose yourself.'

'Stay, sir!' cried Emma--one moment, I beg you. Cannot we--and she drew
Do