
'Go on before, landlord, and show the way,' said Lord George Gordon; 'we
will follow at a footpace.'

'If you'll give me leave, my lord,' said John Grueby, in a low voice,
'I'll change my proper place, and ride before you. The looks of the
landlord's friend are not over honest, and it may be as well to be
cautious with him.'

'John Grueby is quite right,' interposed Mr Gashford, falling back
hastily. 'My lord, a life so precious as yours must not be put in peril.
Go forward, John, by all means. If you have any reason to suspect the
fellow, blow his brains out.'

John made no answer, but looking straight before him, as his custom
seemed to be when the secretary spoke, bade Hugh push on, and followed
close behind him. Then came his lordship, with Mr Willet at his bridle
rein; and, last of all, his lordship's secretary--for that, it seemed,
was Gashford's office.

Hugh strode briskly on, often looking back at the servant, whose horse
was close upon his heels, and glancing with a leer at his holster
case of pistols, by which he seemed to set great store. He was a
square-built, strong-made, bull-necked fellow, of the true English
breed; and as Hugh measured him with his eye, he measured Hugh,
regarding him meanwhile with a look of bluff disdain. He was much older
than the Maypole man, being to all appearance five-and-forty; but was
one of those self-possessed, hard-headed, imperturbable fellows, who, if
they are ever beaten at fisticuffs, or other kind of warfare, never know
it, and go on coolly till they win.

'If I led you wrong now,' said Hugh, tauntingly, 'you'd--ha ha
ha!--you'd shoot me through the head, I suppose.'

John Grueby took no more notice of this remark than if he had been deaf
and Hugh dumb; but kept riding on quite comfortably, with his eyes fixed
on the horizon.

'Did you ever try a fall with a man when you were young, master?' said
Hugh. 'Can you make any play at single-stick?'

John Grueby looked at him sideways with the same contented air, but
deigned not a word in answer.

'--Like this?' said Hugh, giving his cudgel one of those skilful
flourishes, in which the rustic of that time delighted. 'Whoop!'

'--Or that,' returned John Grueby, beating down his guard with his whip,
and striking him on the head with its butt end. 'Yes, I played a little
once. You wear your hair too long; I should have cracked your crown if
it had been a little shorter.'

It was a pretty smart, loud-sounding rap, as it was, and evidently
astonished Hugh; who, for the moment, seemed disposed to drag his new
acquaintance from his saddle. But his face betokening neither malice,
triumph, rage, nor any lingering idea that he had given him offence;
his eyes gazing steadily in the old direction, and his manner being as
careless and composed as if he had merely brushed away a fly; Hugh was
so puzzled, and so disposed to look upon him as a customer of almost
supernatural toughness, that he merely laughed, and cried 'Well done!'
then, sheering off a little, led the way in silence.

Before the lapse of many minutes the party halted at the Maypole door.
Lord George and his secretary quickly dismounting, gave their horses to
their servant, who, under the guidance of Hugh, repaired to the stables.
Right glad to escape from the inclemency of the night, they followed
Mr Willet into the common room, and stood warming themselves and drying
their clothes before the cheerful fire, while he busied himself with
such orders and preparations as his guest's high quality required.

As he bustled in and out of the room, intent on these arrangements, he
had an opportunity of observing the two travellers, of whom, as yet, he
knew nothing but the voice. The lord, the great personage who did the
Maypole so much honour, was about the middle height, of a slender make,
and sallow complexion, with an aquiline nose, and long hair of a reddish
brown, combed perfectly straight and smooth about his ears, and slightly
powdered, but without the faintest vestige of a curl. He was attired,
under his greatcoat, in a full suit of black, quite free from any
ornament, and of the most precise and sober cut. The gravity of his
dress, together with a certain lankness of cheek and stiffness of
deportment, added nearly ten years to his age, but his figure was that
of one not yet past thirty. As he stood musing in the red glow of
the fire, it was striking to observe his very bright large eye, which
betrayed a restlessness of thought and purpose, singularly at variance
with the studied composure and sobriety of his mien, and with his
quaint and sad apparel. It had nothing harsh or cruel in its expression;
neither had his face, which was thin and mild, and wore an air of
melancholy; but it was suggestive of an indefinable uneasiness; which
infected those who looked upon him, and filled them with a kind of pity
for the man: though why it did so, they would have had some trouble to
explain.

Gashford, the secretary, was taller, angularly made, high-shouldered,
bony, and ungraceful. His dress, in imitation of his superior, was
demure and staid in the extreme; his manner, formal and constrai