sed.

'You did quite right,' he said, at the end of a long conversation, 'to
bid them keep this story secret. It is a foolish fancy on the part of
this weak-brained man, bred in his fears and superstition. But Miss
Haredale, though she would know it to be so, would be disturbed by it
if it reached her ears; it is too nearly connected with a subject very
painful to us all, to be heard with indifference. You were most prudent,
and have laid me under a great obligation. I thank you very much.'

This was equal to John's most sanguine expectations; but he would have
preferred Mr Haredale's looking at him when he spoke, as if he really
did thank him, to his walking up and down, speaking by fits and starts,
often stopping with his eyes fixed on the ground, moving hurriedly on
again, like one distracted, and seeming almost unconscious of what he
said or did.

This, however, was his manner; and it was so embarrassing to John that
he sat quite passive for a long time, not knowing what to do. At length
he rose. Mr Haredale stared at him for a moment as though he had quite
forgotten his being present, then shook hands with him, and opened the
door. Hugh, who was, or feigned to be, fast asleep on the ante-chamber
floor, sprang up on their entrance, and throwing his cloak about him,
grasped his stick and lantern, and prepared to descend the stairs.

'Stay,' said Mr Haredale. 'Will this man drink?'

'Drink! He'd drink the Thames up, if it was strong enough, sir, replied
John Willet. 'He'll have something when he gets home. He's better
without it, now, sir.'

'Nay. Half the distance is done,' said Hugh. 'What a hard master you
are! I shall go home the better for one glassful, halfway. Come!'

As John made no reply, Mr Haredale brought out a glass of liquor, and
gave it to Hugh, who, as he took it in his hand, threw part of it upon
the floor.

'What do you mean by splashing your drink about a gentleman's house,
sir?' said John.

'I'm drinking a toast,' Hugh rejoined, holding the glass above his head,
and fixing his eyes on Mr Haredale's face; 'a toast to this house and
its master.' With that he muttered something to himself, and drank the
rest, and setting down the glass, preceded them without another word.

John was a good deal scandalised by this observance, but seeing that
Mr Haredale took little heed of what Hugh said or did, and that his
thoughts were otherwise employed, he offered no apology, and went in
silence down the stairs, across the walk, and through the garden-gate.
They stopped upon the outer side for Hugh to hold the light while Mr
Haredale locked it on the inner; and then John saw with wonder (as he
often afterwards related), that he was very pale, and that his face
had changed so much and grown so haggard since their entrance, that he
almost seemed another man.

They were in the open road again, and John Willet was walking on behind
his escort, as he had come, thinking very steadily of what he had just
now seen, when Hugh drew him suddenly aside, and almost at the same
instant three horsemen swept past--the nearest brushed his shoulder even
then--who, checking their steeds as suddenly as they could, stood still,
and waited for their coming up.



Chapter 35


When John Willet saw that the horsemen wheeled smartly round, and drew
up three abreast in the narrow road, waiting for him and his man to join
them, it occurred to him with unusual precipitation that they must be
highwaymen; and had Hugh been armed with a blunderbuss, in place of his
stout cudgel, he would certainly have ordered him to fire it off at a
venture, and would, while the word of command was obeyed, have consulted
his own personal safety in immediate flight. Under the circumstances of
disadvantage, however, in which he and his guard were placed, he deemed
it prudent to adopt a different style of generalship, and therefore
whispered his attendant to address them in the most peaceable and
courteous terms. By way of acting up to the spirit and letter of this
instruction, Hugh stepped forward, and flourishing his staff before the
very eyes of the rider nearest to him, demanded roughly what he and his
fellows meant by so nearly galloping over them, and why they scoured the
king's highway at that late hour of night.

The man whom he addressed was beginning an angry reply in the same
strain, when he was checked by the horseman in the centre, who,
interposing with an air of authority, inquired in a somewhat loud but
not harsh or unpleasant voice:

'Pray, is this the London road?'

'If you follow it right, it is,' replied Hugh roughly.

'Nay, brother,' said the same person, 'you're but a churlish Englishman,
if Englishman you be--which I should much doubt but for your tongue.
Your companion, I am sure, will answer me more civilly. How say you,
friend?'

'I say it IS the London road, sir,' answered John. 'And I wish,' he
added in a subdued voice, as he turned to Hugh, 'that you was in any
other road, you vagabond. Are you tired of your life, sir, that you go
a-trying to provoke three great neck-or-nothing chaps, that could keep
on running over us, back'ards and for'ar