have conferred
together closely. See them, and hear what they can add. See this Dennis,
and learn from him what he has not trusted to me. If you, who hold the
clue to all, want corroboration (which you do not), the means are easy.'

'And to what,' said Sir John Chester, rising on his elbow, after
smoothing the pillow for its reception; 'my dear, good-natured,
estimable Mr Varden--with whom I cannot be angry if I would--to what
does all this tend?'

'I take you for a man, Sir John, and I suppose it tends to some pleading
of natural affection in your breast,' returned the locksmith. 'I suppose
to the straining of every nerve, and the exertion of all the influence
you have, or can make, in behalf of your miserable son, and the man
who has disclosed his existence to you. At the worst, I suppose to your
seeing your son, and awakening him to a sense of his crime and danger.
He has no such sense now. Think what his life must have been, when he
said in my hearing, that if I moved you to anything, it would be to
hastening his death, and ensuring his silence, if you had it in your
power!'

'And have you, my good Mr Varden,' said Sir John in a tone of mild
reproof, 'have you really lived to your present age, and remained so
very simple and credulous, as to approach a gentleman of established
character with such credentials as these, from desperate men in their
last extremity, catching at any straw? Oh dear! Oh fie, fie!'

The locksmith was going to interpose, but he stopped him:

'On any other subject, Mr Varden, I shall be delighted--I shall be
charmed--to converse with you, but I owe it to my own character not to
pursue this topic for another moment.'

'Think better of it, sir, when I am gone,' returned the locksmith;
'think better of it, sir. Although you have, thrice within as many
weeks, turned your lawful son, Mr Edward, from your door, you may have
time, you may have years to make your peace with HIM, Sir John: but that
twelve o'clock will soon be here, and soon be past for ever.'

'I thank you very much,' returned the knight, kissing his delicate hand
to the locksmith, 'for your guileless advice; and I only wish, my good
soul, although your simplicity is quite captivating, that you had a
little more worldly wisdom. I never so much regretted the arrival of my
hairdresser as I do at this moment. God bless you! Good morning! You'll
not forget my message to the ladies, Mr Varden? Peak, show Mr Varden to
the door.'

Gabriel said no more, but gave the knight a parting look, and left him.
As he quitted the room, Sir John's face changed; and the smile gave
place to a haggard and anxious expression, like that of a weary actor
jaded by the performance of a difficult part. He rose from his bed with
a heavy sigh, and wrapped himself in his morning-gown.

'So she kept her word,' he said, 'and was constant to her threat! I
would I had never seen that dark face of hers,--I might have read these
consequences in it, from the first. This affair would make a noise
abroad, if it rested on better evidence; but, as it is, and by not
joining the scattered links of the chain, I can afford to slight
it.--Extremely distressing to be the parent of such an uncouth creature!
Still, I gave him very good advice. I told him he would certainly be
hanged. I could have done no more if I had known of our relationship;
and there are a great many fathers who have never done as much for THEIR
natural children.--The hairdresser may come in, Peak!'

The hairdresser came in; and saw in Sir John Chester (whose
accommodating conscience was soon quieted by the numerous precedents
that occurred to him in support of his last observation), the same
imperturbable, fascinating, elegant gentleman he had seen yesterday, and
many yesterdays before.



Chapter 76


As the locksmith walked slowly away from Sir John Chester's chambers,
he lingered under the trees which shaded the path, almost hoping that
he might be summoned to return. He had turned back thrice, and still
loitered at the corner, when the clock struck twelve.

It was a solemn sound, and not merely for its reference to to-morrow;
for he knew that in that chime the murderer's knell was rung. He had
seen him pass along the crowded street, amidst the execration of the
throng; and marked his quivering lip, and trembling limbs; the ashy hue
upon his face, his clammy brow, the wild distraction of his eye--the
fear of death that swallowed up all other thoughts, and gnawed without
cessation at his heart and brain. He had marked the wandering look,
seeking for hope, and finding, turn where it would, despair. He had seen
the remorseful, pitiful, desolate creature, riding, with his coffin
by his side, to the gibbet. He knew that, to the last, he had been an
unyielding, obdurate man; that in the savage terror of his condition he
had hardened, rather than relented, to his wife and child; and that the
last words which had passed his white lips were curses on them as his
enemies.

Mr Haredale had determined to be there, and see it done. Nothing but
the evidence of his own senses could satisfy that gloomy thirst for
retribution which