, my love, but do not speak. It is for me to speak now. When
it was that I began to doubt whether what I had done would really
make you happy is no matter. Woodcourt came home, and I soon had no
doubt at all."

I clasped him round the neck and hung my head upon his breast and
wept. "Lie lightly, confidently here, my child," said he, pressing me
gently to him. "I am your guardian and your father now. Rest
confidently here."

Soothingly, like the gentle rustling of the leaves; and genially,
like the ripening weather; and radiantly and beneficently, like the
sunshine, he went on.

"Understand me, my dear girl. I had no doubt of your being contented
and happy with me, being so dutiful and so devoted; but I saw with
whom you would be happier. That I penetrated his secret when Dame
Durden was blind to it is no wonder, for I knew the good that could
never change in her better far than she did. Well! I have long been
in Allan Woodcourt's confidence, although he was not, until
yesterday, a few hours before you came here, in mine. But I would not
have my Esther's bright example lost; I would not have a jot of my
dear girl's virtues unobserved and unhonoured; I would not have her
admitted on sufferance into the line of Morgan ap-Kerrig, no, not for
the weight in gold of all the mountains in Wales!"

He stopped to kiss me on the forehead, and I sobbed and wept afresh.
For I felt as if I could not bear the painful delight of his praise.

"Hush, little woman! Don't cry; this is to be a day of joy. I have
looked forward to it," he said exultingly, "for months on months! A
few words more, Dame Trot, and I have said my say. Determined not to
throw away one atom of my Esther's worth, I took Mrs. Woodcourt into
a separate confidence. 'Now, madam,' said I, 'I clearly perceive--and
indeed I know, to boot--that your son loves my ward. I am further
very sure that my ward loves your son, but will sacrifice her love to
a sense of duty and affection, and will sacrifice it so completely,
so entirely, so religiously, that you should never suspect it though
you watched her night and day.' Then I told her all our
story--ours--yours and mine. 'Now, madam,' said I, 'come you, knowing
this, and live with us. Come you, and see my child from hour to hour;
set what you see against her pedigree, which is this, and this'--for
I scorned to mince it--'and tell me what is the true legitimacy when
you shall have quite made up your mind on that subject.' Why, honour
to her old Welsh blood, my dear," cried my guardian with enthusiasm,
"I believe the heart it animates beats no less warmly, no less
admiringly, no less lovingly, towards Dame Durden than my own!"

He tenderly raised my head, and as I clung to him, kissed me in his
old fatherly way again and again. What a light, now, on the
protecting manner I had thought about!

"One more last word. When Allan Woodcourt spoke to you, my dear, he
spoke with my knowledge and consent--but I gave him no encouragement,
not I, for these surprises were my great reward, and I was too
miserly to part with a scrap of it. He was to come and tell me all
that passed, and he did. I have no more to say. My dearest, Allan
Woodcourt stood beside your father when he lay dead--stood beside
your mother. This is Bleak House. This day I give this house its
little mistress; and before God, it is the brightest day in all my
life!"

He rose and raised me with him. We were no longer alone. My
husband--I have called him by that name full seven happy years
now--stood at my side.

"Allan," said my guardian, "take from me a willing gift, the best
wife that ever man had. What more can I say for you than that I know
you deserve her! Take with her the little home she brings you. You
know what she will make it, Allan; you know what she has made its
namesake. Let me share its felicity sometimes, and what do I
sacrifice? Nothing, nothing."

He kissed me once again, and now the tears were in his eyes as he
said more softly, "Esther, my dearest, after so many years, there is
a kind of parting in this too. I know that my mistake has caused you
some distress. Forgive your old guardian, in restoring him to his old
place in your affections; and blot it out of your memory. Allan, take
my dear."

He moved away from under the green roof of leaves, and stopping in
the sunlight outside and turning cheerfully towards us, said, "I
shall be found about here somewhere. It's a west wind, little woman,
due west! Let no one thank me any more, for I am going to revert to
my bachelor habits, and if anybody disregards this warning, I'll run
away and never come back!"

What happiness was ours that day, what joy, what rest, what hope,
what gratitude, what bliss! We were to be married before the month
was out, but when we were to come and take possession of our own
house was to depend on Richard and Ada.

We all three went home together next day. As soon as we arrived in
town, Allan went straight to see Richard and to carry our joyful news
to him and my darling. Late as it was, I meant to go to her for a few
minutes before lying down to sleep, but I went home with my guardian
firs