 them to his eyes;
    and, after looking at Mr. Pickwick for a few seconds with great
    curiosity, turned to Mr. Perker, and said, smiling slightly as he
    spoke--

    'Has Mr. Pickwick a strong case?'

    The attorney shrugged his shoulders.

    'Do you purpose calling witnesses?'

    'No.'

    The smile on the Serjeant's countenance became more defined; he
    rocked his leg with increased violence, and, throwing himself back in
    his easy-chair, coughed dubiously.

    These tokens of the Serjeant's presentiments on the subject, slight
    as they were, were not lost on Mr. Pickwick.  He settled the
    spectacles, through which he had attentively regarded such
    demonstrations of the barrister's feeling as he had permitted himself
    to exhibit, more firmly on his nose; and said with great energy, and
    in utter disregard of all Mr. Perker's admonitory winkings and
    frownings--

    'My wishing to wait upon you for such a purpose as this, Sir,
    appears, I have no doubt, to a gentleman who sees so much of these
    matters as you must necessarily do, a very extraordinary
    circumstance.'

    The Serjeant tried to look gravely at the fire, but the smile came
    back again.

         [Picture: Mr. Pickwick expounds his case to his Counsel]

    'Gentlemen of your profession, Sir,' continued Mr. Pickwick, 'see the
    worst side of human nature--all its disputes, all its ill-will and
    bad blood, rise up before you.  You know from your experience of
    juries (I mean no disparagement to you or them) how much depends upon
    _effect_; and you are apt to attribute to others, a desire to use,
    for purposes of deception and self-interest, the very instruments
    which you, in pure honesty and honour of purpose, and with a laudable
    desire to do your utmost for your client, know the temper and worth
    of so well, from constantly employing them yourselves.  I really
    believe that to this circumstance may be attributed the vulgar but
    very general notion of your being, as a body, suspicious,
    distrustful, and over-cautious.  Conscious as I am, Sir, of the
    disadvantage of making such a declaration to you, under such
    circumstances, I have come here, because I wish you distinctly to
    understand, as my friend Mr. Perker has said, that I am innocent of
    the falsehood laid to my charge; and although I am very well aware of
    the inestimable value of your assistance, Sir, I must beg to add,
    that unless you sincerely believe this, I would rather be deprived of
    the aid of your talents than have the advantage of them.'

    Long before the close of this address, which we are bound to say was
    of a very prosy character for Mr. Pickwick, the Serjeant had relapsed
    into a state of abstraction.

Now the Serjeant might at once have replied to all this, that the
innocence or guilt of a client had nothing to do with him, that his use
was merely to secure a client such benefit and advantage as the law
entitled him to: that a judge and jury would decide the point of
innocence.  Boz himself evidently shared this popular delusion, and seems
to be speaking by Mr. Pickwick's mouth.  The sagacious Serjeant, however,
took no notice whatever of the appeal, but simply asked "who was with
him" in the case.  Mr. Phunky was sent for, and asked by his leader "to
take Mr. Pickwick away" and "hear anything he may wish to communicate."
The party was then bowed out.

The truth was, Mr. Pickwick's attorney was too much of a social character
and of the "old family solicitor" pattern for so critical a case.  The
counsel he "instructed" were unsuitable.  Serjeant Snubbin was an
overworked "Chamber lawyer," whose whole time and experience was given to
furnishing "opinions" on tangled cases; so pressed was he that he took
"expedition fees" to give certain cases priority: an illegitimate
practice that now the Bar Committee would scarcely tolerate.  What could
such a man know of nisi prius trials, of cross-examining or handling
witnesses?  It is enough to give his portrait, as supplied by the author:

                    [Picture: Serjeant Snubbin, K.C.]

    Mr. Serjeant Snubbin was a lantern-faced, sallow-complexioned man, of
    about five-and-forty, or--as the novels say--he might be fifty.  He
    had that _dull-looking boiled eye_ which is often to be seen in the
    heads of people who have applied themselves during many years to a
    weary and laborious course of study; and which would have been
    sufficient, without the additional eye-glass which dangled from a
    broad black riband round his neck, to warn a stranger that he was
    very near-sighted.  His hair was thin and weak, which was partly
    attributable to his having never devoted much time to its
    arrangement, and partly to his having worn for five-and-twenty years
    the forsenic wig which hung on a block beside him.  The marks of hair
    powder on his coat collar, and the ill-washed and worse tied white
    neckerchief round his throat, showed that he had not found leisure
    since he left the court to make any alt