ful servant, shed
to conceal your own atrocious guilt--You, Rudge, double murderer and
monster, I arrest you in the name of God, who has delivered you into my
hands. No. Though you had the strength of twenty men,' he added, as the
murderer writhed and struggled, you could not escape me or loosen my
grasp to-night!'



Chapter 57


Barnaby, armed as we have seen, continued to pace up and down before
the stable-door; glad to be alone again, and heartily rejoicing in the
unaccustomed silence and tranquillity. After the whirl of noise and riot
in which the last two days had been passed, the pleasures of solitude
and peace were enhanced a thousandfold. He felt quite happy; and as he
leaned upon his staff and mused, a bright smile overspread his face, and
none but cheerful visions floated into his brain.

Had he no thoughts of her, whose sole delight he was, and whom he had
unconsciously plunged in such bitter sorrow and such deep affliction?
Oh, yes. She was at the heart of all his cheerful hopes and proud
reflections. It was she whom all this honour and distinction were to
gladden; the joy and profit were for her. What delight it gave her
to hear of the bravery of her poor boy! Ah! He would have known that,
without Hugh's telling him. And what a precious thing it was to know she
lived so happily, and heard with so much pride (he pictured to himself
her look when they told her) that he was in such high esteem: bold among
the boldest, and trusted before them all! And when these frays were
over, and the good lord had conquered his enemies, and they were all at
peace again, and he and she were rich, what happiness they would have
in talking of these troubled times when he was a great soldier: and when
they sat alone together in the tranquil twilight, and she had no longer
reason to be anxious for the morrow, what pleasure would he have in the
reflection that this was his doing--his--poor foolish Barnaby's; and
in patting her on the cheek, and saying with a merry laugh, 'Am I silly
now, mother--am I silly now?'

With a lighter heart and step, and eyes the brighter for the happy tear
that dimmed them for a moment, Barnaby resumed his walk; and singing
gaily to himself, kept guard upon his quiet post.

His comrade Grip, the partner of his watch, though fond of basking in
the sunshine, preferred to-day to walk about the stable; having a great
deal to do in the way of scattering the straw, hiding under it such
small articles as had been casually left about, and haunting Hugh's
bed, to which he seemed to have taken a particular attachment. Sometimes
Barnaby looked in and called him, and then he came hopping out; but
he merely did this as a concession to his master's weakness, and soon
returned again to his own grave pursuits: peering into the straw with
his bill, and rapidly covering up the place, as if, Midas-like, he were
whispering secrets to the earth and burying them; constantly busying
himself upon the sly; and affecting, whenever Barnaby came past, to
look up in the clouds and have nothing whatever on his mind: in short,
conducting himself, in many respects, in a more than usually thoughtful,
deep, and mysterious manner.

As the day crept on, Barnaby, who had no directions forbidding him to
eat and drink upon his post, but had been, on the contrary, supplied
with a bottle of beer and a basket of provisions, determined to break
his fast, which he had not done since morning. To this end, he sat down
on the ground before the door, and putting his staff across his knees in
case of alarm or surprise, summoned Grip to dinner.

This call, the bird obeyed with great alacrity; crying, as he sidled
up to his master, 'I'm a devil, I'm a Polly, I'm a kettle, I'm a
Protestant, No Popery!' Having learnt this latter sentiment from the
gentry among whom he had lived of late, he delivered it with uncommon
emphasis.

'Well said, Grip!' cried his master, as he fed him with the daintiest
bits. 'Well said, old boy!'

'Never say die, bow wow wow, keep up your spirits, Grip Grip Grip,
Holloa! We'll all have tea, I'm a Protestant kettle, No Popery!' cried
the raven.

'Gordon for ever, Grip!' cried Barnaby.

The raven, placing his head upon the ground, looked at his master
sideways, as though he would have said, 'Say that again!' Perfectly
understanding his desire, Barnaby repeated the phrase a great many
times. The bird listened with profound attention; sometimes repeating
the popular cry in a low voice, as if to compare the two, and try if it
would at all help him to this new accomplishment; sometimes flapping
his wings, or barking; and sometimes in a kind of desperation drawing a
multitude of corks, with extraordinary viciousness.

Barnaby was so intent upon his favourite, that he was not at first
aware of the approach of two persons on horseback, who were riding at a
foot-pace, and coming straight towards his post. When he perceived them,
however, which he did when they were within some fifty yards of him, he
jumped hastily up, and ordering Grip within doors, stood with both hands
on his staff, waiting until he should know whether they were friends or
