s case, I understand?' said the Serjeant.

    If Mr. Phunky had been a rich man, he would have instantly sent for
    his clerk to remind him; if he had been a wise one, he would have
    applied his fore-finger to his forehead, and endeavoured to
    recollect, whether, in the multiplicity of his engagements he had
    undertaken this one, or not; but as he was neither rich nor wise (in
    this sense at all events) he turned red, and bowed.

    'Have you read the papers, Mr. Phunky?' inquired the Serjeant.

    Here again, Mr. Phunky should have professed to have forgotten all
    about the merits of the case; but as he had read such papers as had
    been laid before him in the course of the action, and had thought of
    nothing else, waking or sleeping, throughout the two months during
    which he had been retained as Mr. Serjeant Snubbin's junior, he
    turned a deeper red, and bowed again.

    'This is Mr. Pickwick,' said the Serjeant, waving his pen in the
    direction in which that gentleman was standing.

    Mr. Phunky bowed to Mr. Pickwick with a reverence which a first
    client must ever awaken; and again inclined his head towards his
    leader.

    'Perhaps you will take Mr. Pickwick away,' said the Serjeant,
    'and--and--and--hear anything Mr. Pickwick may wish to communicate.
    We shall have a consultation, of course.'  With this hint that he had
    been interrupted quite long enough, Mr. Serjeant Snubbin, who had
    been gradually growing more and more abstracted, applied his glass to
    his eyes for an instant, bowed slightly round, and was once more
    deeply immersed in the case before him: which arose out of an
    interminable law suit, originating in the act of an individual,
    deceased a century or so ago, who had stopped up a pathway leading
    from some place which nobody ever came from, to some other place
    which nobody ever went to.

With such a pair the case was literally given away.  Perker should have
secured a man like the present Mr. Gill or Mr. Charles Matthews--they
might have "broken down" the witnesses, or laughed the case out of court.

We may speculate--why did Perker make this foolish selection?  As to
Snubbin there was some excuse, as it was the custom that Serjeants only
should lead in the Court of Common Pleas.  But for the choice of Phunky,
Perker's stupidity alone was responsible.

Under these conditions Serjeant Snubbin's conduct of the case and his
"handling" of the witnesses was truly inefficient.  He lost every
opportunity for helping his client.  He "led" in a quiet, gentlemanly and
almost indifferent way.  His first opportunity came in examining Mrs.
Cluppins.  As we have seen, she had deposed to hearing, when the door was
"on the jar," Mr. Pickwick make those speeches which Mrs. Bardell had
taken to be a proposal.  Now here was the moment to show the ambiguity
and that Mr. Pickwick was speaking of his servant.  It might have been
brought out that Sam was actually engaged that day, and that she had met
him on the stairs, etc.  But Snubbin declined to ask her a single
question, saying that Mr. Pickwick admitted the accuracy of her
statement.  But this was beside the matter, and the Serjeant need not
have impeached her accuracy.

When Phunky came to Winkle, the inexperience of the tyro was shown at
once.  Again, here was the moment to have extracted from the witness a
full explanation of Mr. Pickwick's ambiguous speeches to Mrs. Bardell.
He could have "brought out" as "clear as the light of day" that Mr.
Pickwick was speaking of his engagement of a valet and have shown that
the valet was to be engaged that very morning.  It would have been
impossible to resist such an explanation.  But the thing was not thought
of.  From him also could have been drawn a vast deal favourable to Mr.
Pickwick such as his disgust and annoyance at Mrs. Bardell's behaviour,
his wish to be rid of her, his complaints of her conduct.  But no, there
was only the foolish question as to Mr. Pickwick's being an elderly man
and of fatherly ways, a topic that would by no means negative the
presumption of matrimony.  But nothing could excuse the rashness of
putting a general question as to "Mr. Pickwick's behaviour towards
females."  No adroit counsel would run the risk of encountering a too
conscientious witness, such as Winkle proved to be and who would "let the
cat out of the bag."

As we have seen, this awkward question settled Mr. Pickwick's business.
Snubbin had held him out as an elderly but benevolent being, treating
every female he met as a daughter, never dreaming of matrimony: when lo!
the whole fabric is overthrown in an instant by the luckless Winkle's
admission!

    Amid the profound silence of the whole court Mr. Winkle faltered out
    that the trifling circumstance of suspicion was Mr. Pickwick's being
    found in a lady's sleeping apartment at midnight, which had
    terminated, _he believed_, in breaking off the projected marriage of
    the lady, and had led, _he knew_, to the whole party being forcibly
    carried before a magistrate.

Thus was the defendant sudd