mpted.  It is, in fact, a real speech, which might have been
delivered to a dull-headed audience without much impairing credibility.
Apart from this it is a most effective harangue and most plausible
statement of the Plaintiff's case.

A little professional touch, which is highly significant as part of the
pantomine, and which Boz made very effective at the reading, was the
Serjeant's dramatic preparation for his speech.  "Having whispered to
Dodson and conferred briefly with Fogg, _he pulled his gown over his
shoulders_, _settled his wig_, and addressed the Jury."  Who has not seen
this bit of business?

Again, Juries may have noted that the Junior as he rises to speak,
mumbles something that is quite inaudible, and which nobody attends to.
This is known as "opening the pleadings."

    The ushers again called silence, and Mr. Skimpin proceeded to 'open
    the case;' and the case appeared to have very little inside it when
    he had opened it, for he kept such particulars as he knew, completely
    to himself, and sat down, after a lapse of three minutes, leaving the
    jury in precisely the same advanced stage of wisdom as they were in
    before.

    Serjeant Buzfuz then rose with all the majesty and dignity which the
    grave nature of the proceedings demanded, and having whispered to
    Dodson, and conferred briefly with Fogg, pulled his gown over his
    shoulders, settled his wig, and addressed the jury.

A most delightful legal platitude, as one might call it, is to be found
in the opening of the learned Sergeant's speech.  It is a familiar,
transparent thing, often used to impose on the Jury.  As Boz says of
another topic, "Counsel often begins in this way because it makes the
jury think what sharp fellows they must be."  "You have heard from my
learned friend, gentlemen," continued the Serjeant, well knowing that
from the learned friend alluded to they had heard just nothing at all,
"you have heard from my learned friend, that this is an action for Breach
of Promise of Marriage, in which the damages are laid at 1,500 pounds.
But you have _not heard from my learned friend_, _inasmuch as it did not
lie within my learned friend's province to tell you_, what are the facts
and circumstances of the case."  This rich bit of circumlocution is
simple nonsense, in rotund phrase, and meant to suggest the imposing
majesty of legal process.  The Jury knew perfectly beforehand what they
were going to try: but were to be impressed by the magnifying agency of
legal processes, and would be awe stricken accordingly.  The passage,
"inasmuch as it did not lie within my learned friend's province to tell
you," is a delightful bit of cant.  In short, the Jury was thus admitted
to the secret legal arena, and into community with the learned friends
themselves, and were persuaded that they were very sharp fellows indeed.
What pleasant satire is here, on the mellifluous "openings" of Counsel,
the putting a romantic gloss on the most prosaic incidents.

A sucking Barrister might well study this speech of Buzfuz as a guide to
the conducting of a case, and above all of rather a "shaky" one.  Not
less excellent is his smooth and plausible account of Mrs. Bardell's
setting up in lodging letting.  He really makes it "interesting."  One
thinks of some fluttering, helpless young widow, setting out in the
battle of life.

He describes the poor innocent lady putting a bill in her window, "and
let me entreat the attention of the Jury to the wording of this
document--'Apartments furnished for a single gentleman!'  Mrs. Bardell's
opinions of the opposite sex, gentlemen, were derived from a long
contemplation of the inestimable qualities of her lost husband.  She had
no fear--she had no distrust--she had no suspicion--all was confidence
and reliance.  'Mr. Bardell,' said the widow: 'Mr. Bardell was a man of
honour--Mr. Bardell was a man of his word--Mr. Bardell was no
deceiver--Mr. Bardell was once a single gentleman himself; to single
gentlemen I look for protection, for assistance, for comfort, and for
consolation--in single gentlemen I shall perpetually see something to
remind me of what Mr. Bardell was, when he first won my young and untried
affections; to a single gentleman, then, shall my lodgings be let.'
Actuated by this beautiful and touching impulse (among the best impulses
of our imperfect nature, gentlemen), the lonely and desolate widow dried
her tears, furnished her first floor, caught her innocent boy to her
maternal bosom, and put the bill up in her parlour window.  Did it remain
there long?  No.  The serpent was on the watch, the train was laid, the
mine was preparing, the sapper and miner was at work.  Before the bill
had been in the parlour window three days--three days, gentlemen--a
being, erect upon two legs, and bearing all the outward semblance of a
man, and not of a monster, knocked at the door of Mrs. Bardell's house.
He enquired within."

Those who attended the Reading will recall the admirable briskness, and
more admirable spirit with which Boz delivered the passage "by the
evidence of the unimpeachable female whom I shall