ll remember my
name, I dare say.'

John was so very much astonished to find who his visitor was, that he
could express no astonishment at all, by looks or otherwise, but left
the room as if he were in the most placid and imperturbable of all
possible conditions. It has been reported that when he got downstairs,
he looked steadily at the boiler for ten minutes by the clock, and all
that time never once left off shaking his head; for which statement
there would seem to be some ground of truth and feasibility, inasmuch
as that interval of time did certainly elapse, before he returned with
Barnaby to the guest's apartment.

'Come hither, lad,' said Mr Chester. 'You know Mr Geoffrey Haredale?'

Barnaby laughed, and looked at the landlord as though he would say,
'You hear him?' John, who was greatly shocked at this breach of decorum,
clapped his finger to his nose, and shook his head in mute remonstrance.

'He knows him, sir,' said John, frowning aside at Barnaby, 'as well as
you or I do.'

'I haven't the pleasure of much acquaintance with the gentleman,'
returned his guest. 'YOU may have. Limit the comparison to yourself, my
friend.'

Although this was said with the same easy affability, and the same
smile, John felt himself put down, and laying the indignity at Barnaby's
door, determined to kick his raven, on the very first opportunity.

'Give that,' said the guest, who had by this time sealed the note, and
who beckoned his messenger towards him as he spoke, 'into Mr Haredale's
own hands. Wait for an answer, and bring it back to me here. If you
should find that Mr Haredale is engaged just now, tell him--can he
remember a message, landlord?'

'When he chooses, sir,' replied John. 'He won't forget this one.'

'How are you sure of that?'

John merely pointed to him as he stood with his head bent forward, and
his earnest gaze fixed closely on his questioner's face; and nodded
sagely.

'Tell him then, Barnaby, should he be engaged,' said Mr Chester, 'that
I shall be glad to wait his convenience here, and to see him (if he will
call) at any time this evening.--At the worst I can have a bed here,
Willet, I suppose?'

Old John, immensely flattered by the personal notoriety implied in this
familiar form of address, answered, with something like a knowing look,
'I should believe you could, sir,' and was turning over in his mind
various forms of eulogium, with the view of selecting one appropriate to
the qualities of his best bed, when his ideas were put to flight by Mr
Chester giving Barnaby the letter, and bidding him make all speed away.

'Speed!' said Barnaby, folding the little packet in his breast, 'Speed!
If you want to see hurry and mystery, come here. Here!'

With that, he put his hand, very much to John Willet's horror, on the
guest's fine broadcloth sleeve, and led him stealthily to the back
window.

'Look down there,' he said softly; 'do you mark how they whisper in each
other's ears; then dance and leap, to make believe they are in sport?
Do you see how they stop for a moment, when they think there is no one
looking, and mutter among themselves again; and then how they roll and
gambol, delighted with the mischief they've been plotting? Look at
'em now. See how they whirl and plunge. And now they stop again, and
whisper, cautiously together--little thinking, mind, how often I have
lain upon the grass and watched them. I say what is it that they plot
and hatch? Do you know?'

'They are only clothes,' returned the guest, 'such as we wear; hanging
on those lines to dry, and fluttering in the wind.'

'Clothes!' echoed Barnaby, looking close into his face, and falling
quickly back. 'Ha ha! Why, how much better to be silly, than as wise
as you! You don't see shadowy people there, like those that live in
sleep--not you. Nor eyes in the knotted panes of glass, nor swift ghosts
when it blows hard, nor do you hear voices in the air, nor see men
stalking in the sky--not you! I lead a merrier life than you, with all
your cleverness. You're the dull men. We're the bright ones. Ha! ha!
I'll not change with you, clever as you are,--not I!'

With that, he waved his hat above his head, and darted off.

'A strange creature, upon my word!' said the guest, pulling out a
handsome box, and taking a pinch of snuff.

'He wants imagination,' said Mr Willet, very slowly, and after a long
silence; 'that's what he wants. I've tried to instil it into him, many
and many's the time; but'--John added this in confidence--'he an't made
for it; that's the fact.'

To record that Mr Chester smiled at John's remark would be little to the
purpose, for he preserved the same conciliatory and pleasant look at all
times. He drew his chair nearer to the fire though, as a kind of hint
that he would prefer to be alone, and John, having no reasonable excuse
for remaining, left him to himself.

Very thoughtful old John Willet was, while the dinner was preparing; and
if his brain were ever less clear at one time than another, it is but
reasonable to suppose that he addled it in no slight degree by shaking
his head so much that day. That Mr Chester, between whom and Mr
Haredal