no. 'Don't fear to shake it; it's a friendly one and
a hearty one, though it has no fellow. Why, how well you look and how
bluff you are! And you--God bless you, sir. Take heart, take heart.
We'll find them. Be of good cheer; we have not been idle.'

There was something so honest and frank in Joe's speech, that Mr
Haredale put his hand in his involuntarily, though their meeting
was suspicious enough. But his glance at Edward Chester, and that
gentleman's keeping aloof, were not lost upon Joe, who said bluntly,
glancing at Edward while he spoke:

'Times are changed, Mr Haredale, and times have come when we ought to
know friends from enemies, and make no confusion of names. Let me tell
you that but for this gentleman, you would most likely have been dead by
this time, or badly wounded at the best.'

'What do you say?' cried Mr Haredale.

'I say,' said Joe, 'first, that it was a bold thing to be in the crowd
at all disguised as one of them; though I won't say much about that, on
second thoughts, for that's my case too. Secondly, that it was a brave
and glorious action--that's what I call it--to strike that fellow off
his horse before their eyes!'

'What fellow! Whose eyes!'

'What fellow, sir!' cried Joe: 'a fellow who has no goodwill to you, and
who has the daring and devilry in him of twenty fellows. I know him of
old. Once in the house, HE would have found you, here or anywhere. The
rest owe you no particular grudge, and, unless they see you, will only
think of drinking themselves dead. But we lose time. Are you ready?'

'Quite,' said Edward. 'Put out the torch, Joe, and go on. And be silent,
there's a good fellow.'

'Silent or not silent,' murmured Joe, as he dropped the flaring link
upon the ground, crushed it with his foot, and gave his hand to Mr
Haredale, 'it was a brave and glorious action;--no man can alter that.'

Both Mr Haredale and the worthy vintner were too amazed and too much
hurried to ask any further questions, so followed their conductors
in silence. It seemed, from a short whispering which presently ensued
between them and the vintner relative to the best way of escape, that
they had entered by the back-door, with the connivance of John Grueby,
who watched outside with the key in his pocket, and whom they had taken
into their confidence. A party of the crowd coming up that way, just as
they entered, John had double-locked the door again, and made off for
the soldiers, so that means of retreat was cut off from under them.

However, as the front-door had been forced, and this minor crowd, being
anxious to get at the liquor, had no fancy for losing time in breaking
down another, but had gone round and got in from Holborn with the rest,
the narrow lane in the rear was quite free of people. So, when they had
crawled through the passage indicated by the vintner (which was a mere
shelving-trap for the admission of casks), and had managed with some
difficulty to unchain and raise the door at the upper end, they emerged
into the street without being observed or interrupted. Joe still holding
Mr Haredale tight, and Edward taking the same care of the vintner, they
hurried through the streets at a rapid pace; occasionally standing aside
to let some fugitives go by, or to keep out of the way of the soldiers
who followed them, and whose questions, when they halted to put any,
were speedily stopped by one whispered word from Joe.



Chapter 68


While Newgate was burning on the previous night, Barnaby and his
father, having been passed among the crowd from hand to hand, stood in
Smithfield, on the outskirts of the mob, gazing at the flames like men
who had been suddenly roused from sleep. Some moments elapsed before
they could distinctly remember where they were, or how they got
there; or recollected that while they were standing idle and listless
spectators of the fire, they had tools in their hands which had been
hurriedly given them that they might free themselves from their fetters.

Barnaby, heavily ironed as he was, if he had obeyed his first impulse,
or if he had been alone, would have made his way back to the side of
Hugh, who to his clouded intellect now shone forth with the new lustre
of being his preserver and truest friend. But his father's terror
of remaining in the streets, communicated itself to him when he
comprehended the full extent of his fears, and impressed him with the
same eagerness to fly to a place of safety.

In a corner of the market among the pens for cattle, Barnaby knelt down,
and pausing every now and then to pass his hand over his father's face,
or look up to him with a smile, knocked off his irons. When he had seen
him spring, a free man, to his feet, and had given vent to the transport
of delight which the sight awakened, he went to work upon his own, which
soon fell rattling down upon the ground, and left his limbs unfettered.

Gliding away together when this task was accomplished, and passing
several groups of men, each gathered round a stooping figure to hide
him from those who passed, but unable to repress the clanking sound of
hammers, which told that they too were busy at the same w