know this hand,' said Mr. Pickwick, opening the letter.
    'Mercy on us! what's this?  It must be a jest; it--it--can't be
    true.'

    'What's the matter?' was the general inquiry.

    'Nobody dead, is there?' said Wardle, alarmed at the horror in Mr.
    Pickwick's countenance.

    Mr. Pickwick made no reply, but, pushing the letter across the table,
    and desiring Mr. Tupman to read it aloud, fell back in his chair with
    a look of vacant astonishment quite alarming to behold.

    Mr. Tupman, with a trembling voice, read the letter, of which the
    following is a copy:--

                    '_Freeman's Court_, _Cornhill_, _August_ 28_th_, 1827.
                                               _Bardell against Pickwick_.

    _Sir_,

    _Having been instructed by Mrs. Martha Bardell to commence an action
    against you for a breach of promise of marriage_, _for which the
    plaintiff lays her damages at fifteen hundred pounds_, _we beg to
    inform you that a writ has been issued against you in this suit in
    the Court of Common Pleas_; _and request to know_, _by return of
    post_, _the name of your attorney in London_, _who will accept
    service thereof_.

                                                          _We are_, _Sir_,
                                                 _Your obedient servants_,
                                                          _DODSON & FOGG_.

    Mr. Samuel Pickwick.'

So Mr. Pickwick, the general mentor, the philosopher and friend--the man
of high moral tone, "born to set the world aright"--the general lecturer
of his "followers," was now in for an action at law of the most awkward
and unpleasant kind.  To be philandering with one's landlady! rather low
form this.  But what would they say down at Manor Farm?  How Isabella
Wardle and her sister--and all the girls--would laugh!  And the spinster
aunt--_she_ would enjoy it!  But there was no help for it.  It must be
faced.

Naturally Mr. Pickwick felt uncomfortable, and his first idea was to
arrange the matter.  This was a sensible course, and he ought at once to
have put the matter into the hands of his friend Perker, with full powers
to treat.  But no.  Mr. Pickwick's vanity and indiscretion made him
meddle in the business behind his solicitor's back, as it where, and with
damaging results to himself--a warning to all such amateurs.  It must be
said that Dodson and Fogg's behaviour at the extraordinary visit which he
paid them was marked by a certain propriety.  Mr. Pickwick insisted on
knowing what were the grounds of action--that is, the details of the
evidence against him--in short, their case.  They, very correctly,
refused to tell him.  "The case may be false or it may be true--it may be
credible it may be incredible."  But all the same it was a strong case.
This was as much as they could tell.  Mr. Pickwick could only urge that
if "it were so, he was a most unfortunate man," on which Dodson
promptly--"I hope you are, sir, I trust you may be, sir.  If you are
really innocent, you are more unfortunate than I had believed any man
could possibly be."

Mr. Pickwick then rather foolishly asked did he understand they meant to
go on with the action--as if they could have been affected by his
declaration.  "Understand?" was the reply, "that you certainly may"--a
very natural speech.

With some want of professional delicacy and etiquette, Dodson seized the
opportunity to "serve" Mr. Pickwick; but they were not a high-class firm
and their methods were not high-class.  Then an extraordinarily
incredible display followed.  His passion broke forth.  "_Of all the
disgraceful and rascally proceedings he ever_, _etc._!"  Dodson summoned
his clerks to listen to this gross language, and said, "Perhaps you would
like to call us swindlers."  "_You are_," said Mr. Pickwick.  Fogg even
wished him to assault them--and perhaps he would have done so, but for
Sam, who at last got him away.  This was certainly not correct, but how
aggravating was Mr. Pickwick!  One is rather astonished at the
forbearance of this sharp firm.

Now, had Mr. Pickwick gone straight to his lodgings in Goswell Street and
seen Mrs. Bardell, heard her views and claims, had he been told by her
that she had been professionally urged to go to law as she had such a
strong case--there might have been some excuse for this violence to
Dodson and Fogg.  But he knew nothing whatever of the matter--knew
nothing of the attornies--and in his blind fury gratuitously assumed that
they had "conspired" to harass him in this way.  True, he had overheard
how they had treated poor Ramsey.

This very _malapropos_ visit of Mr. Pickwick to the firm was, as I said,
a mistake and damaged his case.  It showed that he was nervous and
anxious, and _insecure_.  He took nothing by it.  There was in truth much
short-sighted cunning in his ways, which came of his overweening vanity.
But this was only one of several attempts he made to worm out something
to his own advantage.

Another of Mr. Pickwick's foolish manoeuvres was his sending his man to
his old lodgings to his landlady--ostensibly to