.  "'Oh no; certainly not,'
replied Mr. Winkle with so much eagerness, that Mr. Phunky ought to have
got him out of the box with all possible dispatch.  Lawyers hold out that
there are two kinds of particularly bad witnesses: a reluctant witness,
and a too willing witness;" and most true it is.  Both commit themselves
in each case, but in different ways.  The matter of the former, and the
manner of the latter do the mischief.  The ideal witness affects
indifference, and is as impartial as the record of a phonograph.  It is
wonderful where Boz learned all this.  No doubt from his friend Talfourd,
K.C., who carefully revised "The Trial."

Skimpin's interpretation of Mr. Pickwick's consolatory phrase, which he
evidently devised on the spur of the moment, shows him to be a very
ready, smart fellow.

    'Now, Mr. Winkle, I have only one more question to ask you, and I beg
    you to bear in mind his Lordship's caution.  Will you undertake to
    swear that Pickwick, the Defendant, did not say on the occasion in
    question--"My dear Mrs. Bardell, you're a good creature; compose
    yourself to this situation, for to this situation you must come," or
    words to that effect?'

    'I--I didn't understand him so, certainly,' said Mr. Winkle,
    astounded at this ingenious dove-tailing of the few words he had
    heard.  'I was on the staircase, and couldn't hear distinctly; the
    impression on my mind is--'

    'The gentlemen of the jury want none of the impressions on your mind,
    Mr. Winkle, which I fear would be of little service to honest,
    straightforward men,' interposed Mr. Skimpin.  'You were on the
    staircase, and didn't distinctly hear; but you will swear that
    Pickwick _did not make use_ of the expressions I have quoted?  Do I
    understand that?'

    'No, I will not,' replied Mr. Winkle; and down sat Mr. Skimpin, with
    a triumphant countenance.

This "Will you swear he did _not_," etc., is a device familiar to cross
examiners, and is used when the witness cannot be got to accept the words
or admit that they were used.  It of course means little or nothing: but
its effect on the jury is that they come to fancy that the words _may_
have been used, and that the witness is not very clear as to his
recollection.

How well described, too, and satirised, is yet another "common form" of
the cross examiner, to wit the "How often, Sir?" question.  Winkle, when
asked as to his knowledge of Mrs. Bardell, replied that "he did not know
her, but that he had seen her."  (I recall making this very answer to Boz
when we were both driving through Sackville Street, Dublin.  He had asked
"Did I know so-and-so?" when I promptly replied, "I don't know him, but I
have seen him."  This rather arrided him, as Elia would say.)

Skimpin went on:

    'Oh, you don't know her, but you have seen her.'

    'Now have the goodness to tell the gentlemen of the jury what you
    mean by _that_, Mr. Winkle.'

    'I mean that I am not intimate with her, but that I have seen her
    when I went to call on Mr. Pickwick, in Goswell Street.'

    'How often have you seen her, Sir?'

    'How often?'

    '_Yes_, _Mr. Winkle_, _how often_?  I'll repeat the question for you
    a dozen times, if you require it, Sir.'  And the learned gentlemen,
    with a firm and steady frown, placed his hands on his hips, and
    smiled suspiciously to the jury.

    _On this question there arose the edifying brow-beating_, _customary
    on such points_.  First of all, Mr. Winkle said it was quite
    impossible for him to say how many times he had seen Mrs. Bardell.
    Then he was asked if he had seen her twenty times, to which he
    replied, 'Certainly,--more than that.'  And then he was asked whether
    he hadn't seen her a hundred times--whether he couldn't swear that he
    had seen her more than fifty times--whether he didn't know that he
    had seen her at least seventy-five times, and so forth; the
    satisfactory conclusion which was arrived at, at last, being--that he
    had better take care of himself, and mind what he was about.  The
    witness having been, by these means, reduced to the requisite ebb of
    nervous perplexity, the examination was concluded.

How excellent is this.  Who has not heard the process repeated over and
over again from the young fledgeling Counsel to the old "hardbitten" and
experienced K.C.?

A young legal tyro might find profit as well as entertainment in
carefully studying others of Mr. Skimpin's adroit methods in cross
examination.  They are in a manner typical of those in favour with the
more experienced members of the profession, allowing, of course, for a
little humorous exaggeration.  He will note also that Boz shows clearly
how effective was the result of the processes.  Here are a few useful
recipes.

_How to make a witness appear as though he wished to withhold the
truth_._  How to highly discredit a witness by an opening question_._
How to insinuate inaccuracy_._  How to suggest that the witness is
evading_._  How to deal with a statement of a particular number of
instances_._  How to take advan