 But, directly we got into the street we were known, and
this hubbub began. Of the two,' he added, as he wiped his crimson face,
'and after experience of both, I think I'd rather be taken out of my
house by a crowd of enemies, than escorted home by a mob of friends!'

It was plain enough, however, that this was mere talk on Gabriel's part,
and that the whole proceeding afforded him the keenest delight; for
the people continuing to make a great noise without, and to cheer as if
their voices were in the freshest order, and good for a fortnight, he
sent upstairs for Grip (who had come home at his master's back, and had
acknowledged the favours of the multitude by drawing blood from every
finger that came within his reach), and with the bird upon his arm
presented himself at the first-floor window, and waved his hat again
until it dangled by a shred, between his finger and thumb. This
demonstration having been received with appropriate shouts, and silence
being in some degree restored, he thanked them for their sympathy; and
taking the liberty to inform them that there was a sick person in the
house, proposed that they should give three cheers for King George,
three more for Old England, and three more for nothing particular, as
a closing ceremony. The crowd assenting, substituted Gabriel Varden
for the nothing particular; and giving him one over, for good measure,
dispersed in high good-humour.

What congratulations were exchanged among the inmates at the Golden
Key, when they were left alone; what an overflowing of joy and happiness
there was among them; how incapable it was of expression in Barnaby's
own person; and how he went wildly from one to another, until he became
so far tranquillised, as to stretch himself on the ground beside his
mother's couch and fall into a deep sleep; are matters that need not be
told. And it is well they happened to be of this class, for they would
be very hard to tell, were their narration ever so indispensable.

Before leaving this bright picture, it may be well to glance at a dark
and very different one which was presented to only a few eyes, that same
night.

The scene was a churchyard; the time, midnight; the persons, Edward
Chester, a clergyman, a grave-digger, and the four bearers of a homely
coffin. They stood about a grave which had been newly dug, and one of
the bearers held up a dim lantern,--the only light there--which shed
its feeble ray upon the book of prayer. He placed it for a moment on the
coffin, when he and his companions were about to lower it down. There
was no inscription on the lid.

The mould fell solemnly upon the last house of this nameless man; and
the rattling dust left a dismal echo even in the accustomed ears of
those who had borne it to its resting-place. The grave was filled in to
the top, and trodden down. They all left the spot together.

'You never saw him, living?' asked the clergyman, of Edward.

'Often, years ago; not knowing him for my brother.'

'Never since?'

'Never. Yesterday, he steadily refused to see me. It was urged upon him,
many times, at my desire.'

'Still he refused? That was hardened and unnatural.'

'Do you think so?'

'I infer that you do not?'

'You are right. We hear the world wonder, every day, at monsters of
ingratitude. Did it never occur to you that it often looks for monsters
of affection, as though they were things of course?'

They had reached the gate by this time, and bidding each other good
night, departed on their separate ways.



Chapter 80


That afternoon, when he had slept off his fatigue; had shaved, and
washed, and dressed, and freshened himself from top to toe; when he had
dined, comforted himself with a pipe, an extra Toby, a nap in the great
arm-chair, and a quiet chat with Mrs Varden on everything that had
happened, was happening, or about to happen, within the sphere of their
domestic concern; the locksmith sat himself down at the tea-table in
the little back-parlour: the rosiest, cosiest, merriest, heartiest,
best-contented old buck, in Great Britain or out of it.

There he sat, with his beaming eye on Mrs V., and his shining face
suffused with gladness, and his capacious waistcoat smiling in every
wrinkle, and his jovial humour peeping from under the table in the very
plumpness of his legs; a sight to turn the vinegar of misanthropy into
purest milk of human kindness. There he sat, watching his wife as she
decorated the room with flowers for the greater honour of Dolly and
Joseph Willet, who had gone out walking, and for whom the tea-kettle
had been singing gaily on the hob full twenty minutes, chirping as
never kettle chirped before; for whom the best service of real undoubted
china, patterned with divers round-faced mandarins holding up broad
umbrellas, was now displayed in all its glory; to tempt whose
appetites a clear, transparent, juicy ham, garnished with cool green
lettuce-leaves and fragrant cucumber, reposed upon a shady table,
covered with a snow-white cloth; for whose delight, preserves and jams,
crisp cakes and other pastry, short to eat, with cunning twists, and
cottage loaves, and rolls of bread bot