, of themselves) how very poor the people were who lived in
the crazy huts adjacent, and how foolhardy it might prove for one who
carried money, or wore decent clothes, to walk that way alone, unless by
daylight.

Poverty has its whims and shows of taste, as wealth has. Some of these
cabins were turreted, some had false windows painted on their rotten
walls; one had a mimic clock, upon a crazy tower of four feet high,
which screened the chimney; each in its little patch of ground had a
rude seat or arbour. The population dealt in bones, in rags, in broken
glass, in old wheels, in birds, and dogs. These, in their several ways
of stowage, filled the gardens; and shedding a perfume, not of the most
delicious nature, in the air, filled it besides with yelps, and screams,
and howling.

Into this retreat, the secretary followed the two men whom he had held
in sight; and here he saw them safely lodged, in one of the meanest
houses, which was but a room, and that of small dimensions. He waited
without, until the sound of their voices, joined in a discordant song,
assured him they were making merry; and then approaching the door, by
means of a tottering plank which crossed the ditch in front, knocked at
it with his hand.

'Muster Gashfordl' said the man who opened it, taking his pipe from
his mouth, in evident surprise. 'Why, who'd have thought of this here
honour! Walk in, Muster Gashford--walk in, sir.'

Gashford required no second invitation, and entered with a gracious air.
There was a fire in the rusty grate (for though the spring was pretty
far advanced, the nights were cold), and on a stool beside it Hugh sat
smoking. Dennis placed a chair, his only one, for the secretary, in
front of the hearth; and took his seat again upon the stool he had left
when he rose to give the visitor admission.

'What's in the wind now, Muster Gashford?' he said, as he resumed his
pipe, and looked at him askew. 'Any orders from head-quarters? Are we
going to begin? What is it, Muster Gashford?'

'Oh, nothing, nothing,' rejoined the secretary, with a friendly nod to
Hugh. 'We have broken the ice, though. We had a little spurt to-day--eh,
Dennis?'

'A very little one,' growled the hangman. 'Not half enough for me.'

'Nor me neither!' cried Hugh. 'Give us something to do with life in
it--with life in it, master. Ha, ha!'

'Why, you wouldn't,' said the secretary, with his worst expression of
face, and in his mildest tones, 'have anything to do, with--with death
in it?'

'I don't know that,' replied Hugh. 'I'm open to orders. I don't care;
not I.'

'Nor I!' vociferated Dennis.

'Brave fellows!' said the secretary, in as pastor-like a voice as if he
were commending them for some uncommon act of valour and generosity. 'By
the bye'--and here he stopped and warmed his hands: then suddenly looked
up--'who threw that stone to-day?'

Mr Dennis coughed and shook his head, as who should say, 'A mystery
indeed!' Hugh sat and smoked in silence.

'It was well done!' said the secretary, warming his hands again. 'I
should like to know that man.'

'Would you?' said Dennis, after looking at his face to assure himself
that he was serious. 'Would you like to know that man, Muster Gashford?'

'I should indeed,' replied the secretary.

'Why then, Lord love you,' said the hangman, in his hoarest chuckle,
as he pointed with his pipe to Hugh, 'there he sits. That's the man. My
stars and halters, Muster Gashford,' he added in a whisper, as he
drew his stool close to him and jogged him with his elbow, 'what a
interesting blade he is! He wants as much holding in as a thorough-bred
bulldog. If it hadn't been for me to-day, he'd have had that 'ere Roman
down, and made a riot of it, in another minute.'

'And why not?' cried Hugh in a surly voice, as he overheard this last
remark. 'Where's the good of putting things off? Strike while the iron's
hot; that's what I say.'

'Ah!' retorted Dennis, shaking his head, with a kind of pity for his
friend's ingenuous youth; 'but suppose the iron an't hot, brother! You
must get people's blood up afore you strike, and have 'em in the humour.
There wasn't quite enough to provoke 'em to-day, I tell you. If you'd
had your way, you'd have spoilt the fun to come, and ruined us.'

'Dennis is quite right,' said Gashford, smoothly. 'He is perfectly
correct. Dennis has great knowledge of the world.'

'I ought to have, Muster Gashford, seeing what a many people I've helped
out of it, eh?' grinned the hangman, whispering the words behind his
hand.

The secretary laughed at this jest as much as Dennis could desire, and
when he had done, said, turning to Hugh:

'Dennis's policy was mine, as you may have observed. You saw, for
instance, how I fell when I was set upon. I made no resistance. I did
nothing to provoke an outbreak. Oh dear no!'

'No, by the Lord Harry!' cried Dennis with a noisy laugh, 'you went down
very quiet, Muster Gashford--and very flat besides. I thinks to myself
at the time "it's all up with Muster Gashford!" I never see a man lay
flatter nor more still--with the life in him--than you did to-day. He's
a rough 'un to play with, is that 'ere