rner. To this I say, Amen, amen!'

His arm fell downward by his side; he turned; and moved towards them
with a steady step, the man he had been before.

'There is nothing more?' said the governor.

Hugh motioned Barnaby not to come near him (though without looking in
the direction where he stood) and answered, 'There is nothing more.'

'Move forward!'

'--Unless,' said Hugh, glancing hurriedly back,--'unless any person here
has a fancy for a dog; and not then, unless he means to use him well.
There's one, belongs to me, at the house I came from, and it wouldn't
be easy to find a better. He'll whine at first, but he'll soon get over
that.--You wonder that I think about a dog just now, he added, with a
kind of laugh. 'If any man deserved it of me half as well, I'd think of
HIM.'

He spoke no more, but moved onward in his place, with a careless air,
though listening at the same time to the Service for the Dead, with
something between sullen attention, and quickened curiosity. As soon as
he had passed the door, his miserable associate was carried out; and the
crowd beheld the rest.

Barnaby would have mounted the steps at the same time--indeed he would
have gone before them, but in both attempts he was restrained, as he
was to undergo the sentence elsewhere. In a few minutes the sheriffs
reappeared, the same procession was again formed, and they passed
through various rooms and passages to another door--that at which the
cart was waiting. He held down his head to avoid seeing what he knew his
eyes must otherwise encounter, and took his seat sorrowfully,--and yet
with something of a childish pride and pleasure,--in the vehicle. The
officers fell into their places at the sides, in front and in the rear;
the sheriffs' carriages rolled on; a guard of soldiers surrounded the
whole; and they moved slowly forward through the throng and pressure
toward Lord Mansfield's ruined house.

It was a sad sight--all the show, and strength, and glitter, assembled
round one helpless creature--and sadder yet to note, as he rode along,
how his wandering thoughts found strange encouragement in the crowded
windows and the concourse in the streets; and how, even then, he felt
the influence of the bright sky, and looked up, smiling, into its deep
unfathomable blue. But there had been many such sights since the riots
were over--some so moving in their nature, and so repulsive too, that
they were far more calculated to awaken pity for the sufferers, than
respect for that law whose strong arm seemed in more than one case to be
as wantonly stretched forth now that all was safe, as it had been basely
paralysed in time of danger.

Two cripples--both mere boys--one with a leg of wood, one who dragged
his twisted limbs along by the help of a crutch, were hanged in this
same Bloomsbury Square. As the cart was about to glide from under them,
it was observed that they stood with their faces from, not to, the house
they had assisted to despoil; and their misery was protracted that this
omission might be remedied. Another boy was hanged in Bow Street; other
young lads in various quarters of the town. Four wretched women, too,
were put to death. In a word, those who suffered as rioters were, for
the most part, the weakest, meanest, and most miserable among them. It
was a most exquisite satire upon the false religious cry which had led
to so much misery, that some of these people owned themselves to be
Catholics, and begged to be attended by their own priests.

One young man was hanged in Bishopsgate Street, whose aged grey-headed
father waited for him at the gallows, kissed him at its foot when he
arrived, and sat there, on the ground, till they took him down. They
would have given him the body of his child; but he had no hearse, no
coffin, nothing to remove it in, being too poor--and walked meekly away
beside the cart that took it back to prison, trying, as he went, to
touch its lifeless hand.

But the crowd had forgotten these matters, or cared little about them
if they lived in their memory: and while one great multitude fought
and hustled to get near the gibbet before Newgate, for a parting look,
another followed in the train of poor lost Barnaby, to swell the throng
that waited for him on the spot.



Chapter 78


On this same day, and about this very hour, Mr Willet the elder sat
smoking his pipe in a chamber at the Black Lion. Although it was hot
summer weather, Mr Willet sat close to the fire. He was in a state of
profound cogitation, with his own thoughts, and it was his custom
at such times to stew himself slowly, under the impression that that
process of cookery was favourable to the melting out of his ideas,
which, when he began to simmer, sometimes oozed forth so copiously as to
astonish even himself.

Mr Willet had been several thousand times comforted by his friends and
acquaintance, with the assurance that for the loss he had sustained in
the damage done to the Maypole, he could 'come upon the county.' But as
this phrase happened to bear an unfortunate resemblance to the popular
expression of 'coming on the parish,' it suggested to Mr Willet's mind
no