lly closer to her--'cannot we go together?'

'The task of conveying one female in safety through such scenes as we
must encounter, to say nothing of attracting the attention of those who
crowd the streets,' he answered, 'is enough. I have said that she will
be restored to her friends to-night. If you accept the service I tender,
Miss Haredale, she shall be instantly placed in safe conduct, and that
promise redeemed. Do you decide to remain? People of all ranks and
creeds are flying from the town, which is sacked from end to end. Let me
be of use in some quarter. Do you stay, or go?'

'Dolly,' said Emma, in a hurried manner, 'my dear girl, this is our last
hope. If we part now, it is only that we may meet again in happiness and
honour. I will trust to this gentleman.'

'No no-no!' cried Dolly, clinging to her. 'Pray, pray, do not!'

'You hear,' said Emma, 'that to-night--only to-night--within a few
hours--think of that!--you will be among those who would die of grief to
lose you, and who are now plunged in the deepest misery for your sake.
Pray for me, dear girl, as I will for you; and never forget the many
quiet hours we have passed together. Say one "God bless you!" Say that
at parting!'

But Dolly could say nothing; no, not when Emma kissed her cheek a
hundred times, and covered it with tears, could she do more than hang
upon her neck, and sob, and clasp, and hold her tight.

'We have time for no more of this,' cried the man, unclenching her
hands, and pushing her roughly off, as he drew Emma Haredale towards the
door: 'Now! Quick, outside there! are you ready?'

'Ay!' cried a loud voice, which made him start. 'Quite ready! Stand back
here, for your lives!'

And in an instant he was felled like an ox in the butcher's
shambles--struck down as though a block of marble had fallen from the
roof and crushed him--and cheerful light, and beaming faces came pouring
in--and Emma was clasped in her uncle's embrace, and Dolly, with a
shriek that pierced the air, fell into the arms of her father and
mother.

What fainting there was, what laughing, what crying, what sobbing, what
smiling, how much questioning, no answering, all talking together, all
beside themselves with joy; what kissing, congratulating, embracing,
shaking of hands, and falling into all these raptures, over and over and
over again; no language can describe.

At length, and after a long time, the old locksmith went up and fairly
hugged two strangers, who had stood apart and left them to themselves;
and then they saw--whom? Yes, Edward Chester and Joseph Willet.

'See here!' cried the locksmith. 'See here! where would any of us have
been without these two? Oh, Mr Edward, Mr Edward--oh, Joe, Joe, how
light, and yet how full, you have made my old heart to-night!'

'It was Mr Edward that knocked him down, sir,' said Joe: 'I longed to do
it, but I gave it up to him. Come, you brave and honest gentleman! Get
your senses together, for you haven't long to lie here.'

He had his foot upon the breast of their sham deliverer, in the absence
of a spare arm; and gave him a gentle roll as he spoke. Gashford, for
it was no other, crouching yet malignant, raised his scowling face, like
sin subdued, and pleaded to be gently used.

'I have access to all my lord's papers, Mr Haredale,' he said, in a
submissive voice: Mr Haredale keeping his back towards him, and not once
looking round: 'there are very important documents among them. There are
a great many in secret drawers, and distributed in various places, known
only to my lord and me. I can give some very valuable information, and
render important assistance to any inquiry. You will have to answer it,
if I receive ill usage.

'Pah!' cried Joe, in deep disgust. 'Get up, man; you're waited for,
outside. Get up, do you hear?'

Gashford slowly rose; and picking up his hat, and looking with a baffled
malevolence, yet with an air of despicable humility, all round the room,
crawled out.

'And now, gentlemen,' said Joe, who seemed to be the spokesman of the
party, for all the rest were silent; 'the sooner we get back to the
Black Lion, the better, perhaps.'

Mr Haredale nodded assent, and drawing his niece's arm through his,
and taking one of her hands between his own, passed out straightway;
followed by the locksmith, Mrs Varden, and Dolly--who would scarcely
have presented a sufficient surface for all the hugs and caresses they
bestowed upon her though she had been a dozen Dollys. Edward Chester and
Joe followed.

And did Dolly never once look behind--not once? Was there not one little
fleeting glimpse of the dark eyelash, almost resting on her flushed
cheek, and of the downcast sparkling eye it shaded? Joe thought there
was--and he is not likely to have been mistaken; for there were not many
eyes like Dolly's, that's the truth.

The outer room through which they had to pass, was full of men; among
them, Mr Dennis in safe keeping; and there, had been since yesterday,
lying in hiding behind a wooden screen which was now thrown down,
Simon Tappertit, the recreant 'prentice, burnt and bruised, and with a
gun-shot wound in his body; and his le