alone, in the last ten year,' said Mr
Dennis thoughtfully, 'you'd be surprised at the total--quite amazed, you
would. There's a dignified and equal thing; a beautiful thing! But we've
no security for its lasting. Now that they've begun to favour these here
Papists, I shouldn't wonder if they went and altered even THAT, one of
these days. Upon my soul, I shouldn't.'

The subject, perhaps from being of too exclusive and professional a
nature, failed to interest Hugh as much as his friend had anticipated.
But he had no time to pursue it, for at this crisis Mr Tappertit entered
precipitately; at sight of whom Dolly uttered a scream of joy, and
fairly threw herself into his arms.

'I knew it, I was sure of it!' cried Dolly. 'My dear father's at the
door. Thank God, thank God! Bless you, Sim. Heaven bless you for this!'

Simon Tappertit, who had at first implicitly believed that the
locksmith's daughter, unable any longer to suppress her secret passion
for himself, was about to give it full vent in its intensity, and to
declare that she was his for ever, looked extremely foolish when she
said these words;--the more so, as they were received by Hugh and Dennis
with a loud laugh, which made her draw back, and regard him with a fixed
and earnest look.

'Miss Haredale,' said Sim, after a very awkward silence, 'I hope
you're as comfortable as circumstances will permit of. Dolly Varden,
my darling--my own, my lovely one--I hope YOU'RE pretty comfortable
likewise.'

Poor little Dolly! She saw how it was; hid her face in her hands; and
sobbed more bitterly than ever.

'You meet in me, Miss V.,' said Simon, laying his hand upon his breast,
'not a 'prentice, not a workman, not a slave, not the wictim of your
father's tyrannical behaviour, but the leader of a great people, the
captain of a noble band, in which these gentlemen are, as I may say,
corporals and serjeants. You behold in me, not a private individual, but
a public character; not a mender of locks, but a healer of the wounds of
his unhappy country. Dolly V., sweet Dolly V., for how many years have
I looked forward to this present meeting! For how many years has it been
my intention to exalt and ennoble you! I redeem it. Behold in me, your
husband. Yes, beautiful Dolly--charmer--enslaver--S. Tappertit is all
your own!'

As he said these words he advanced towards her. Dolly retreated till she
could go no farther, and then sank down upon the floor. Thinking it very
possible that this might be maiden modesty, Simon essayed to raise her;
on which Dolly, goaded to desperation, wound her hands in his hair, and
crying out amidst her tears that he was a dreadful little wretch, and
always had been, shook, and pulled, and beat him, until he was fain to
call for help, most lustily. Hugh had never admired her half so much as
at that moment.

'She's in an excited state to-night,' said Simon, as he smoothed his
rumpled feathers, 'and don't know when she's well off. Let her be by
herself till to-morrow, and that'll bring her down a little. Carry her
into the next house!'

Hugh had her in his arms directly. It might be that Mr Tappertit's heart
was really softened by her distress, or it might be that he felt it in
some degree indecorous that his intended bride should be struggling in
the grasp of another man. He commanded him, on second thoughts, to put
her down again, and looked moodily on as she flew to Miss Haredale's
side, and clinging to her dress, hid her flushed face in its folds.

'They shall remain here together till to-morrow,' said Simon, who had
now quite recovered his dignity--'till to-morrow. Come away!'

'Ay!' cried Hugh. 'Come away, captain. Ha ha ha!'

'What are you laughing at?' demanded Simon sternly.

'Nothing, captain, nothing,' Hugh rejoined; and as he spoke, and clapped
his hand upon the shoulder of the little man, he laughed again, for some
unknown reason, with tenfold violence.

Mr Tappertit surveyed him from head to foot with lofty scorn (this only
made him laugh the more), and turning to the prisoners, said:

'You'll take notice, ladies, that this place is well watched on every
side, and that the least noise is certain to be attended with unpleasant
consequences. You'll hear--both of you--more of our intentions
to-morrow. In the mean time, don't show yourselves at the window, or
appeal to any of the people you may see pass it; for if you do, it'll
be known directly that you come from a Catholic house, and all the
exertions our men can make, may not be able to save your lives.'

With this last caution, which was true enough, he turned to the door,
followed by Hugh and Dennis. They paused for a moment, going out, to
look at them clasped in each other's arms, and then left the cottage;
fastening the door, and setting a good watch upon it, and indeed all
round the house.

'I say,' growled Dennis, as they walked away in company, 'that's a
dainty pair. Muster Gashford's one is as handsome as the other, eh?'

'Hush!' said Hugh, hastily. 'Don't you mention names. It's a bad habit.'

'I wouldn't like to be HIM, then (as you don't like names), when he
breaks it out to her; that's a