onfirm me?'

'To recount the menial offices I've had to do for your son, sir,' said
Mr Tappertit; 'the chairs I've had to hand him, the coaches I've had to
call for him, the numerous degrading duties, wholly unconnected with
my indenters, that I've had to do for him, would fill a family Bible.
Besides which, sir, he is but a young man himself and I do not consider
"thank'ee Sim," a proper form of address on those occasions.'

'Mr Tappertit, your wisdom is beyond your years. Pray go on.'

'I thank you for your good opinion, sir,' said Sim, much gratified,
'and will endeavour so to do. Now sir, on this account (and perhaps for
another reason or two which I needn't go into) I am on your side. And
what I tell you is this--that as long as our people go backwards and
forwards, to and fro, up and down, to that there jolly old Maypole,
lettering, and messaging, and fetching and carrying, you couldn't help
your son keeping company with that young lady by deputy,--not if he was
minded night and day by all the Horse Guards, and every man of 'em in
the very fullest uniform.'

Mr Tappertit stopped to take breath after this, and then started fresh
again.

'Now, sir, I am a coming to the point. You will inquire of me, "how is
this to be prevented?" I'll tell you how. If an honest, civil, smiling
gentleman like you--'

'Mr Tappertit--really--'

'No, no, I'm serious,' rejoined the 'prentice, 'I am, upon my soul.
If an honest, civil, smiling gentleman like you, was to talk but ten
minutes to our old woman--that's Mrs Varden--and flatter her up a bit,
you'd gain her over for ever. Then there's this point got--that her
daughter Dolly,'--here a flush came over Mr Tappertit's face--'wouldn't
be allowed to be a go-between from that time forward; and till that
point's got, there's nothing ever will prevent her. Mind that.'

'Mr Tappertit, your knowledge of human nature--'

'Wait a minute,' said Sim, folding his arms with a dreadful calmness.
'Now I come to THE point. Sir, there is a villain at that Maypole, a
monster in human shape, a vagabond of the deepest dye, that unless you
get rid of and have kidnapped and carried off at the very least--nothing
less will do--will marry your son to that young woman, as certainly and
as surely as if he was the Archbishop of Canterbury himself. He will,
sir, for the hatred and malice that he bears to you; let alone the
pleasure of doing a bad action, which to him is its own reward. If you
knew how this chap, this Joseph Willet--that's his name--comes backwards
and forwards to our house, libelling, and denouncing, and threatening
you, and how I shudder when I hear him, you'd hate him worse than I
do,--worse than I do, sir,' said Mr Tappertit wildly, putting his hair
up straighter, and making a crunching noise with his teeth; 'if sich a
thing is possible.'

'A little private vengeance in this, Mr Tappertit?'

'Private vengeance, sir, or public sentiment, or both combined--destroy
him,' said Mr Tappertit. 'Miggs says so too. Miggs and me both say so.
We can't bear the plotting and undermining that takes place. Our souls
recoil from it. Barnaby Rudge and Mrs Rudge are in it likewise; but the
villain, Joseph Willet, is the ringleader. Their plottings and schemes
are known to me and Miggs. If you want information of 'em, apply to us.
Put Joseph Willet down, sir. Destroy him. Crush him. And be happy.'

With these words, Mr Tappertit, who seemed to expect no reply, and to
hold it as a necessary consequence of his eloquence that his hearer
should be utterly stunned, dumbfoundered, and overwhelmed, folded his
arms so that the palm of each hand rested on the opposite shoulder, and
disappeared after the manner of those mysterious warners of whom he had
read in cheap story-books.

'That fellow,' said Mr Chester, relaxing his face when he was fairly
gone, 'is good practice. I HAVE some command of my features, beyond all
doubt. He fully confirms what I suspected, though; and blunt tools are
sometimes found of use, where sharper instruments would fail. I fear
I may be obliged to make great havoc among these worthy people. A
troublesome necessity! I quite feel for them.'

With that he fell into a quiet slumber:--subsided into such a gentle,
pleasant sleep, that it was quite infantine.



Chapter 25


Leaving the favoured, and well-received, and flattered of the world;
him of the world most worldly, who never compromised himself by an
ungentlemanly action, and never was guilty of a manly one; to lie
smilingly asleep--for even sleep, working but little change in his
dissembling face, became with him a piece of cold, conventional
hypocrisy--we follow in the steps of two slow travellers on foot, making
towards Chigwell.

Barnaby and his mother. Grip in their company, of course.

The widow, to whom each painful mile seemed longer than the last, toiled
wearily along; while Barnaby, yielding to every inconstant impulse,
fluttered here and there, now leaving her far behind, now lingering far
behind himself, now darting into some by-lane or path and leaving her
to pursue her way alone, until he stealthily emerged again and came upon
her 