or want of fuel.

'Down--for one moment--for but one moment,' said Mr Haredale, helping
Daisy to the ground, and following himself. 'Willet--Willet--where are
my niece and servants--Willet!'

Crying to him distractedly, he rushed into the bar.--The landlord bound
and fastened to his chair; the place dismantled, stripped, and pulled
about his ears;--nobody could have taken shelter here.

He was a strong man, accustomed to restrain himself, and suppress his
strong emotions; but this preparation for what was to follow--though he
had seen that fire burning, and knew that his house must be razed to the
ground--was more than he could bear. He covered his face with his hands
for a moment, and turned away his head.

'Johnny, Johnny,' said Solomon--and the simple-hearted fellow cried
outright, and wrung his hands--'Oh dear old Johnny, here's a change!
That the Maypole bar should come to this, and we should live to see
it! The old Warren too, Johnny--Mr Haredale--oh, Johnny, what a piteous
sight this is!'

Pointing to Mr Haredale as he said these words, little Solomon Daisy put
his elbows on the back of Mr Willet's chair, and fairly blubbered on his
shoulder.

While Solomon was speaking, old John sat, mute as a stock-fish, staring
at him with an unearthly glare, and displaying, by every possible
symptom, entire and complete unconsciousness. But when Solomon was
silent again, John followed with his great round eyes the direction
of his looks, and did appear to have some dawning distant notion that
somebody had come to see him.

'You know us, don't you, Johnny?' said the little clerk, rapping himself
on the breast. 'Daisy, you know--Chigwell Church--bell-ringer--little
desk on Sundays--eh, Johnny?'

Mr Willet reflected for a few moments, and then muttered, as it were
mechanically: 'Let us sing to the praise and glory of--'

'Yes, to be sure,' cried the little man, hastily; 'that's it--that's me,
Johnny. You're all right now, an't you? Say you're all right, Johnny.'

'All right?' pondered Mr Willet, as if that were a matter entirely
between himself and his conscience. 'All right? Ah!'

'They haven't been misusing you with sticks, or pokers, or any other
blunt instruments--have they, Johnny?' asked Solomon, with a very
anxious glance at Mr Willet's head. 'They didn't beat you, did they?'

John knitted his brow; looked downwards, as if he were mentally engaged
in some arithmetical calculation; then upwards, as if the total would
not come at his call; then at Solomon Daisy, from his eyebrow to his
shoe-buckle; then very slowly round the bar. And then a great, round,
leaden-looking, and not at all transparent tear, came rolling out of
each eye, and he said, as he shook his head:

'If they'd only had the goodness to murder me, I'd have thanked 'em
kindly.'

'No, no, no, don't say that, Johnny,' whimpered his little friend. 'It's
very, very bad, but not quite so bad as that. No, no!'

'Look'ee here, sir!' cried John, turning his rueful eyes on Mr Haredale,
who had dropped on one knee, and was hastily beginning to untie
his bonds. 'Look'ee here, sir! The very Maypole--the old dumb
Maypole--stares in at the winder, as if it said, "John Willet, John
Willet, let's go and pitch ourselves in the nighest pool of water as is
deep enough to hold us; for our day is over!"'

'Don't, Johnny, don't,' cried his friend: no less affected with this
mournful effort of Mr Willet's imagination, than by the sepulchral tone
in which he had spoken of the Maypole. 'Please don't, Johnny!'

'Your loss is great, and your misfortune a heavy one,' said Mr Haredale,
looking restlessly towards the door: 'and this is not a time to comfort
you. If it were, I am in no condition to do so. Before I leave you, tell
me one thing, and try to tell me plainly, I implore you. Have you seen,
or heard of Emma?'

'No!' said Mr Willet.

'Nor any one but these bloodhounds?'

'No!'

'They rode away, I trust in Heaven, before these dreadful scenes began,'
said Mr Haredale, who, between his agitation, his eagerness to mount
his horse again, and the dexterity with which the cords were tied, had
scarcely yet undone one knot. 'A knife, Daisy!'

'You didn't,' said John, looking about, as though he had lost his
pocket-handkerchief, or some such slight article--'either of you
gentlemen--see a--a coffin anywheres, did you?'

'Willet!' cried Mr Haredale. Solomon dropped the knife, and instantly
becoming limp from head to foot, exclaimed 'Good gracious!'

'--Because,' said John, not at all regarding them, 'a dead man called a
little time ago, on his way yonder. I could have told you what name was
on the plate, if he had brought his coffin with him, and left it behind.
If he didn't, it don't signify.'

His landlord, who had listened to these words with breathless attention,
started that moment to his feet; and, without a word, drew Solomon
Daisy to the door, mounted his horse, took him up behind again, and flew
rather than galloped towards the pile of ruins, which that day's sun
had shone upon, a stately house. Mr Willet stared after them, listened,
looked down upon himself to make quite sure that he w