eriously to fear that he might find it necessary to
poison his master, before his time was out.

In the meantime, Edward returned suitable replies to Mrs Varden's
courtesies, and that lady brightened up very much; so that when he
accepted a dish of tea from the fair hands of Dolly, she was perfectly
agreeable.

'I am sure if there's anything we can do,--Varden, or I, or Dolly
either,--to serve you, sir, at any time, you have only to say it, and it
shall be done,' said Mrs V.

'I am much obliged to you, I am sure,' returned Edward. 'You encourage
me to say that I have come here now, to beg your good offices.'

Mrs Varden was delighted beyond measure.

'It occurred to me that probably your fair daughter might be going to
the Warren, either to-day or to-morrow,' said Edward, glancing at Dolly;
'and if so, and you will allow her to take charge of this letter, ma'am,
you will oblige me more than I can tell you. The truth is, that while
I am very anxious it should reach its destination, I have particular
reasons for not trusting it to any other conveyance; so that without
your help, I am wholly at a loss.'

'She was not going that way, sir, either to-day, or to-morrow, nor
indeed all next week,' the lady graciously rejoined, 'but we shall be
very glad to put ourselves out of the way on your account, and if you
wish it, you may depend upon its going to-day. You might suppose,' said
Mrs Varden, frowning at her husband, 'from Varden's sitting there so
glum and silent, that he objected to this arrangement; but you must not
mind that, sir, if you please. It's his way at home. Out of doors, he
can be cheerful and talkative enough.'

Now, the fact was, that the unfortunate locksmith, blessing his stars to
find his helpmate in such good humour, had been sitting with a beaming
face, hearing this discourse with a joy past all expression. Wherefore
this sudden attack quite took him by surprise.

'My dear Martha--' he said.

'Oh yes, I dare say,' interrupted Mrs Varden, with a smile of mingled
scorn and pleasantry. 'Very dear! We all know that.'

'No, but my good soul,' said Gabriel, 'you are quite mistaken. You are
indeed. I was delighted to find you so kind and ready. I waited, my
dear, anxiously, I assure you, to hear what you would say.'

'You waited anxiously,' repeated Mrs V. 'Yes! Thank you, Varden. You
waited, as you always do, that I might bear the blame, if any came of
it. But I am used to it,' said the lady with a kind of solemn titter,
'and that's my comfort!'

'I give you my word, Martha--' said Gabriel.

'Let me give you MY word, my dear,' interposed his wife with a Christian
smile, 'that such discussions as these between married people, are much
better left alone. Therefore, if you please, Varden, we'll drop the
subject. I have no wish to pursue it. I could. I might say a great deal.
But I would rather not. Pray don't say any more.'

'I don't want to say any more,' rejoined the goaded locksmith.

'Well then, don't,' said Mrs Varden.

'Nor did I begin it, Martha,' added the locksmith, good-humouredly, 'I
must say that.'

'You did not begin it, Varden!' exclaimed his wife, opening her eyes
very wide and looking round upon the company, as though she would say,
You hear this man! 'You did not begin it, Varden! But you shall not say
I was out of temper. No, you did not begin it, oh dear no, not you, my
dear!'

'Well, well,' said the locksmith. 'That's settled then.'

'Oh yes,' rejoined his wife, 'quite. If you like to say Dolly began it,
my dear, I shall not contradict you. I know my duty. I need know it,
I am sure. I am often obliged to bear it in mind, when my inclination
perhaps would be for the moment to forget it. Thank you, Varden.' And
so, with a mighty show of humility and forgiveness, she folded her
hands, and looked round again, with a smile which plainly said, 'If you
desire to see the first and foremost among female martyrs, here she is,
on view!'

This little incident, illustrative though it was of Mrs Varden's
extraordinary sweetness and amiability, had so strong a tendency to
check the conversation and to disconcert all parties but that excellent
lady, that only a few monosyllables were uttered until Edward withdrew;
which he presently did, thanking the lady of the house a great many
times for her condescension, and whispering in Dolly's ear that he would
call on the morrow, in case there should happen to be an answer to the
note--which, indeed, she knew without his telling, as Barnaby and his
friend Grip had dropped in on the previous night to prepare her for the
visit which was then terminating.

Gabriel, who had attended Edward to the door, came back with his hands
in his pockets; and, after fidgeting about the room in a very uneasy
manner, and casting a great many sidelong looks at Mrs Varden (who
with the calmest countenance in the world was five fathoms deep in
the Protestant Manual), inquired of Dolly how she meant to go. Dolly
supposed by the stage-coach, and looked at her lady mother, who finding
herself silently appealed to, dived down at least another fathom into
the Manual, and became unconscious of all ea