 the case.

"'We're going to be married, Cobbs, at Gretna Green,' says the boy.
'We've run away on purpose. Norah has been in rather low spirits, Cobbs;
but she'll be happy now we have found you to be our friend.'

"'I give you my word and honor upon it that, by way of luggage the lady
had got a parasol, a smelling-bottle, a round and a half of cold
buttered toast, eight peppermint drops, and a doll's hair-brush. The
gentleman had got about a dozen yards of string, a knife, three or four
sheets of writing-paper folded up surprisingly small, a orange, and a
chaney mug with his name on it.

"'What may be the exact nature of your plans, sir?' says I.

"'To go on,' replies the boy, 'in the morning, and be married
to-morrow.'

"'Just so, sir. Well, sir, if you will excuse my having the freedom to
give an opinion, what I should recommend would be this. I'm acquainted
with a pony, sir, which would take you and Mrs. Harry Walmers junior to
the end of your journey in a very short space of time. I am not
altogether sure, sir, that the pony will be at liberty to-morrow, but
even if you had to wait for him it might be worth your while.'

"They clapped their hands and jumped for joy, and called me 'Good
Cobbs!' and 'Dear Cobbs!' and says I, 'Is there anything you want at
present, sir?'

"'We should like some cakes after dinner,' answers Mr. Harry, 'and two
apples--and jam. With dinner we should like to have toast and water. But
Norah has always been accustomed to half a glass of currant wine at
dessert, and so have I.'

"'They shall be ordered, sir,' I answered, and away I went; and the way
in which all the women in the house went on about that boy and his bold
spirit was a thing to see. They climbed up all sorts of places to get a
look at him, and they peeped, seven deep, through the keyhole.

"In the evening, after the governor had set off for the Elms, I went into
the room to see how the run-away couple was getting on. The gentleman
was on the window seat, supporting the lady in his arms. She had tears
upon her face, and was lying very tired and half asleep, with her head
upon his shoulder.

"'Mrs. Harry Walmers junior fatigued, sir?'

"'Yes, she's tired, Cobbs; she's been in low spirits again; she isn't
used to being in a strange place, you see. Could you bring a Norfolk
biffin, Cobbs? I think that would do her good.'

"Well, I fetched the biffin, and Master Harry fed her with a spoon; but
the lady being heavy with sleep and rather cross, I suggested bed, and
called a chambermaid, but Master Harry must needs escort her himself,
and carry the candle for her. After embracing her at her own door he
retired to his room, where I softly locked him in.

"They consulted me at breakfast (they had ordered sweet milk and water,
and toast and currant jelly, over night) about the pony, and I told 'em
that it did unfortunately happen that the pony was half clipped, but
that he'd be finished clipping in the course of the day, and that
to-morrow morning at eight o'clock he would be ready. My own opinion is
that Mrs. Harry Walmers junior was beginning to give in. She hadn't had
her hair curled when she went to bed, and she didn't seem quite up to
brushing it herself, and it getting into her eyes put her out. But
nothing put out Mr. Harry. He sat behind his breakfast cup tearing away
at the jelly, as if he'd been his own father.

"In the course of the morning, Master Harry rung the bell,--it was
surprising how that there boy did carry on,--and said in a sprightly
way, 'Cobbs, is there any good walks in the neighborhood?'

"'Yes, sir, there's Love Lane.'

"'Get out with you, Cobbs!'--that was that there mite's
expression--'you're joking.'

"'Begging your pardon, sir, there really is a Love Lane, and a pleasant
walk it is; and proud shall I be to show it to yourself and Mrs. Harry
Walmers junior.'

"Well, I took him down Love Lane to the water meadows, and there Master
Harry would have drowned himself in another minute a getting out a
water-lily for her. But they was tired out. All being so new and strange
to them, they were as tired as tired could be. And they laid down on a
bank of daisies and fell asleep.

"They woke up at last, and then one thing was getting pretty clear to
me, namely, that Mrs. Harry Walmers junior's temper was on the move.
When Master Harry took her round the waist, she said he 'teased her so';
and when he says, 'Norah, my young May moon, your Harry tease you?' she
tells him, 'Yes, and I want to go home.'

"A boiled fowl, and baked bread and butter pudding, brought Mrs. Walmers
up a little; but I could have wished, I must privately own, to have seen
her more sensible to the voice of love and less abandoning herself to
the currants in the pudding. However, Master Harry, he kep' up, and his
noble heart was as fond as ever. Mrs. Walmers turned very sleepy about
dusk, and began to cry. Therefore, Mrs. Walmers went off to bed as per
yesterday; and Master Harry ditto repeated.

"About eleven at night comes back the governor in a chaise, along of
Master Harry's father and a elderly lady. And Master Harry's door being
unlocked by me, Mast