 asking
questions, but hurried to The Boot with as much speed as Hugh considered
it prudent to make, without appearing singular or attracting an
inconvenient share of public notice.


Chapter 50


They were among the first to reach the tavern, but they had not been
there many minutes, when several groups of men who had formed part of
the crowd, came straggling in. Among them were Simon Tappertit and Mr
Dennis; both of whom, but especially the latter, greeted Barnaby with
the utmost warmth, and paid him many compliments on the prowess he had
shown.

'Which,' said Dennis, with an oath, as he rested his bludgeon in a
corner with his hat upon it, and took his seat at the same table with
them, 'it does me good to think of. There was a opportunity! But it
led to nothing. For my part, I don't know what would. There's no spirit
among the people in these here times. Bring something to eat and drink
here. I'm disgusted with humanity.'

'On what account?' asked Mr Tappertit, who had been quenching his fiery
face in a half-gallon can. 'Don't you consider this a good beginning,
mister?'

'Give me security that it an't a ending,' rejoined the hangman. 'When
that soldier went down, we might have made London ours; but no;--we
stand, and gape, and look on--the justice (I wish he had had a bullet in
each eye, as he would have had, if we'd gone to work my way) says,
"My lads, if you'll give me your word to disperse, I'll order off the
military," our people sets up a hurrah, throws up the game with the
winning cards in their hands, and skulks away like a pack of tame curs
as they are. Ah,' said the hangman, in a tone of deep disgust, 'it makes
me blush for my feller creeturs. I wish I had been born a ox, I do!'

'You'd have been quite as agreeable a character if you had been, I
think,' returned Simon Tappertit, going out in a lofty manner.

'Don't be too sure of that,' rejoined the hangman, calling after him;
'if I was a horned animal at the present moment, with the smallest
grain of sense, I'd toss every man in this company, excepting them two,'
meaning Hugh and Barnaby, 'for his manner of conducting himself this
day.'

With which mournful review of their proceedings, Mr Dennis sought
consolation in cold boiled beef and beer; but without at all relaxing
the grim and dissatisfied expression of his face, the gloom of which was
rather deepened than dissipated by their grateful influence.

The company who were thus libelled might have retaliated by strong
words, if not by blows, but they were dispirited and worn out. The
greater part of them had fasted since morning; all had suffered
extremely from the excessive heat; and between the day's shouting,
exertion, and excitement, many had quite lost their voices, and so much
of their strength that they could hardly stand. Then they were uncertain
what to do next, fearful of the consequences of what they had done
already, and sensible that after all they had carried no point, but had
indeed left matters worse than they had found them. Of those who had
come to The Boot, many dropped off within an hour; such of them as were
really honest and sincere, never, after the morning's experience, to
return, or to hold any communication with their late companions. Others
remained but to refresh themselves, and then went home desponding;
others who had theretofore been regular in their attendance, avoided the
place altogether. The half-dozen prisoners whom the Guards had taken,
were magnified by report into half-a-hundred at least; and their
friends, being faint and sober, so slackened in their energy, and so
drooped beneath these dispiriting influences, that by eight o'clock in
the evening, Dennis, Hugh, and Barnaby, were left alone. Even they were
fast asleep upon the benches, when Gashford's entrance roused them.

'Oh! you ARE here then?' said the Secretary. 'Dear me!'

'Why, where should we be, Muster Gashford!' Dennis rejoined as he rose
into a sitting posture.

'Oh nowhere, nowhere,' he returned with excessive mildness. 'The streets
are filled with blue cockades. I rather thought you might have been
among them. I am glad you are not.'

'You have orders for us, master, then?' said Hugh.

'Oh dear, no. Not I. No orders, my good fellow. What orders should I
have? You are not in my service.'

'Muster Gashford,' remonstrated Dennis, 'we belong to the cause, don't
we?'

'The cause!' repeated the secretary, looking at him in a sort of
abstraction. 'There is no cause. The cause is lost.'

'Lost!'

'Oh yes. You have heard, I suppose? The petition is rejected by a
hundred and ninety-two, to six. It's quite final. We might have spared
ourselves some trouble. That, and my lord's vexation, are the only
circumstances I regret. I am quite satisfied in all other respects.'

As he said this, he took a penknife from his pocket, and putting his
hat upon his knee, began to busy himself in ripping off the blue cockade
which he had worn all day; at the same time humming a psalm tune which
had been very popular in the morning, and dwelling on it with a gentle
regret.

His two adherents looked at each other, and at him, as if they w