 itself,
and the voices of men speaking together in a subdued tone broke the
silence which, save for a distant shouting now and then, already
prevailed. At length he cleared the wood, and, springing across a ditch,
stood in a dark lane, where a small body of ill-looking vagabonds, whom
he had left there some twenty minutes before, waited his coming with
impatience.

They were gathered round an old post-chaise or chariot, driven by one of
themselves, who sat postilion-wise upon the near horse. The blinds were
drawn up, and Mr Tappertit and Dennis kept guard at the two windows. The
former assumed the command of the party, for he challenged Hugh as he
advanced towards them; and when he did so, those who were resting on the
ground about the carriage rose to their feet and clustered round him.

'Well!' said Simon, in a low voice; 'is all right?'

'Right enough,' replied Hugh, in the same tone. 'They're dispersing
now--had begun before I came away.'

'And is the coast clear?'

'Clear enough before our men, I take it,' said Hugh. 'There are not many
who, knowing of their work over yonder, will want to meddle with 'em
to-night.--Who's got some drink here?'

Everybody had some plunder from the cellar; half-a-dozen flasks and
bottles were offered directly. He selected the largest, and putting it
to his mouth, sent the wine gurgling down his throat. Having emptied
it, he threw it down, and stretched out his hand for another, which he
emptied likewise, at a draught. Another was given him, and this he half
emptied too. Reserving what remained to finish with, he asked:

'Have you got anything to eat, any of you? I'm as ravenous as a hungry
wolf. Which of you was in the larder--come?'

'I was, brother,' said Dennis, pulling off his hat, and fumbling in
the crown. 'There's a matter of cold venison pasty somewhere or another
here, if that'll do.'

'Do!' cried Hugh, seating himself on the pathway. 'Bring it out! Quick!
Show a light here, and gather round! Let me sup in state, my lads! Ha ha
ha!'

Entering into his boisterous humour, for they all had drunk deeply, and
were as wild as he, they crowded about him, while two of their number
who had torches, held them up, one on either side of him, that his
banquet might not be despatched in the dark. Mr Dennis, having by this
time succeeded in extricating from his hat a great mass of pasty, which
had been wedged in so tightly that it was not easily got out, put it
before him; and Hugh, having borrowed a notched and jagged knife from
one of the company, fell to work upon it vigorously.

'I should recommend you to swallow a little fire every day, about an
hour afore dinner, brother,' said Dennis, after a pause. 'It seems to
agree with you, and to stimulate your appetite.'

Hugh looked at him, and at the blackened faces by which he was
surrounded, and, stopping for a moment to flourish his knife above his
head, answered with a roar of laughter.

'Keep order, there, will you?' said Simon Tappertit.

'Why, isn't a man allowed to regale himself, noble captain,' retorted
his lieutenant, parting the men who stood between them, with his knife,
that he might see him,--'to regale himself a little bit after such work
as mine? What a hard captain! What a strict captain! What a tyrannical
captain! Ha ha ha!'

'I wish one of you fellers would hold a bottle to his mouth to keep him
quiet,' said Simon, 'unless you want the military to be down upon us.'

'And what if they are down upon us!' retorted Hugh. 'Who cares? Who's
afraid? Let 'em come, I say, let 'em come. The more, the merrier. Give
me bold Barnaby at my side, and we two will settle the military, without
troubling any of you. Barnaby's the man for the military. Barnaby's
health!'

But as the majority of those present were by no means anxious for a
second engagement that night, being already weary and exhausted, they
sided with Mr Tappertit, and pressed him to make haste with his supper,
for they had already delayed too long. Knowing, even in the height of
his frenzy, that they incurred great danger by lingering so near the
scene of the late outrages, Hugh made an end of his meal without more
remonstrance, and rising, stepped up to Mr Tappertit, and smote him on
the back.

'Now then,' he cried, 'I'm ready. There are brave birds inside this
cage, eh? Delicate birds,--tender, loving, little doves. I caged 'em--I
caged 'em--one more peep!'

He thrust the little man aside as he spoke, and mounting on the steps,
which were half let down, pulled down the blind by force, and stared
into the chaise like an ogre into his larder.

'Ha ha ha! and did you scratch, and pinch, and struggle, pretty
mistress?' he cried, as he grasped a little hand that sought in vain to
free itself from his grip: 'you, so bright-eyed, and cherry-lipped, and
daintily made? But I love you better for it, mistress. Ay, I do. You
should stab me and welcome, so that it pleased you, and you had to
cure me afterwards. I love to see you proud and scornful. It makes you
handsomer than ever; and who so handsome as you at any time, my pretty
one!'

'Come!' said Mr Tappertit, who had waited during thi