 a great desire to answer, but the man, with another
oath, openly kicked at her foot with his heavy boot. He left it to
Jenny's husband to say what he chose, and after a dogged silence the
latter turned his shaggy head towards me.

"I'm not partial to gentlefolks coming into my place, as you've heerd
me say afore now, I think, miss. I let their places be, and it's
curious they can't let my place be. There'd be a pretty shine made if
I was to go a-wisitin THEM, I think. Howsoever, I don't so much
complain of you as of some others, and I'm agreeable to make you a
civil answer, though I give notice that I'm not a-going to be drawed
like a badger. Will Jenny be here soon? No she won't. Where is she?
She's gone up to Lunnun."

"Did she go last night?" I asked.

"Did she go last night? Ah! She went last night," he answered with a
sulky jerk of his head.

"But was she here when the lady came? And what did the lady say to
her? And where is the lady gone? I beg and pray you to be so kind as
to tell me," said I, "for I am in great distress to know."

"If my master would let me speak, and not say a word of harm--" the
woman timidly began.

"Your master," said her husband, muttering an imprecation with slow
emphasis, "will break your neck if you meddle with wot don't concern
you."

After another silence, the husband of the absent woman, turning to me
again, answered me with his usual grumbling unwillingness.

"Wos Jenny here when the lady come? Yes, she wos here when the lady
come. Wot did the lady say to her? Well, I'll tell you wot the lady
said to her. She said, 'You remember me as come one time to talk to
you about the young lady as had been a-wisiting of you? You remember
me as give you somethink handsome for a handkercher wot she had
left?' Ah, she remembered. So we all did. Well, then, wos that young
lady up at the house now? No, she warn't up at the house now. Well,
then, lookee here. The lady was upon a journey all alone, strange as
we might think it, and could she rest herself where you're a setten
for a hour or so. Yes she could, and so she did. Then she went--it
might be at twenty minutes past eleven, and it might be at twenty
minutes past twelve; we ain't got no watches here to know the time
by, nor yet clocks. Where did she go? I don't know where she go'd.
She went one way, and Jenny went another; one went right to Lunnun,
and t'other went right from it. That's all about it. Ask this man. He
heerd it all, and see it all. He knows."

The other man repeated, "That's all about it."

"Was the lady crying?" I inquired.

"Devil a bit," returned the first man. "Her shoes was the worse, and
her clothes was the worse, but she warn't--not as I see."

The woman sat with her arms crossed and her eyes upon the ground. Her
husband had turned his seat a little so as to face her and kept his
hammer-like hand upon the table as if it were in readiness to execute
his threat if she disobeyed him.

"I hope you will not object to my asking your wife," said I, "how the
lady looked."

"Come, then!" he gruffly cried to her. "You hear what she says. Cut
it short and tell her."

"Bad," replied the woman. "Pale and exhausted. Very bad."

"Did she speak much?"

"Not much, but her voice was hoarse."

She answered, looking all the while at her husband for leave.

"Was she faint?" said I. "Did she eat or drink here?"

"Go on!" said the husband in answer to her look. "Tell her and cut it
short."

"She had a little water, miss, and Jenny fetched her some bread and
tea. But she hardly touched it."

"And when she went from here," I was proceeding, when Jenny's husband
impatiently took me up.

"When she went from here, she went right away nor'ard by the high
road. Ask on the road if you doubt me, and see if it warn't so. Now,
there's the end. That's all about it."

I glanced at my companion, and finding that he had already risen and
was ready to depart, thanked them for what they had told me, and took
my leave. The woman looked full at Mr. Bucket as he went out, and he
looked full at her.

"Now, Miss Summerson," he said to me as we walked quickly away.
"They've got her ladyship's watch among 'em. That's a positive fact."

"You saw it?" I exclaimed.

"Just as good as saw it," he returned. "Else why should he talk about
his 'twenty minutes past' and about his having no watch to tell the
time by? Twenty minutes! He don't usually cut his time so fine as
that. If he comes to half-hours, it's as much as HE does. Now, you
see, either her ladyship gave him that watch or he took it. I think
she gave it him. Now, what should she give it him for? What should
she give it him for?"

He repeated this question to himself several times as we hurried on,
appearing to balance between a variety of answers that arose in his
mind.

"If time could be spared," said Mr. Bucket, "which is the only thing
that can't be spared in this case, I might get it out of that woman;
but it's too doubtful a chance to trust to under present
circumstances. They are up to keeping a close eye upon her, and any
fool knows that a poor creetur like her, beaten and kicked and
scarred and bruised from hea