 gold dust, elephants' teeth, and
sandal wood, and getting very rich. This, too, though he almost every
day made presents of enormous value to his men.

The ship being at length as full as she could hold of all sorts of
valuable things, Boldheart gave orders to weigh the anchor, and turn the
Beauty's head towards England. These orders were obeyed with three
cheers, and ere the sun went down full many a hornpipe had been danced
on deck by the uncouth though agile William.

We next find Captain Boldheart about three leagues off Madeira,
surveying through his spy-glass a stranger of suspicious appearance
making sail towards him. On his firing a gun ahead of her to bring
her to, she ran up a flag, which he instantly recognized as the flag
from the mast in the back-garden at home.

[Illustration: "Married the Chief's daughter"]

Inferring from this, that his father had put to sea to seek his
long-lost son, the captain sent his own boat on board the stranger, to
inquire if this was so, and if so, whether his father's intentions were
strictly honourable. The boat came back with a present of greens and
fresh meat, and reported that the stranger was The Family of twelve
hundred tons, and had not only the captain's father on board, but also
his mother, with the majority of his aunts and uncles, and all his
cousins. It was further reported to Boldheart that the whole of these
relations had expressed themselves in a becoming manner, and were
anxious to embrace him and thank him for the glorious credit he had done
them. Boldheart at once invited them to breakfast next morning on board
the Beauty, and gave orders for a brilliant ball that should last all
day.

It was in the course of the night that the captain discovered the
hopelessness of reclaiming the Latin-Grammar-Master. That thankless
traitor was found out, as the two ships lay near each other,
communicating with The Family by signals, and offering to give up
Boldheart. He was hanged at the yard-arm the first thing in the morning,
after having it impressively pointed out to him by Boldheart that this
was what spiters came to.

The meeting between the captain and his parents was attended with tears.
His uncles and aunts would have attended their meeting with tears too,
but he wasn't going to stand that. His cousins were very much astonished
by the size of his ship and the discipline of his men, and were greatly
overcome by the splendour of his uniform. He kindly conducted them round
the vessel, and pointed out every thing worthy of notice. He also fired
his hundred guns, and found it amusing to witness their alarm.

The entertainment surpassed everything ever seen on board ship, and
lasted from ten in the morning until seven the next morning. Only one
disagreeable incident occurred. Captain Boldheart found himself obliged
to put his cousin Tom in irons, for being disrespectful. On the boy's
promising amendment, however, he was humanely released after a few
hours' close confinement.

Boldheart now took his mother down into the great cabin, and asked after
the young lady with whom, it was well known to the world, he was in
love. His mother replied that the object of his affections was then at
school at Margate, for the benefit of sea-bathing (it was the month of
September), but that she feared the young lady's friends were still
opposed to the union. Boldheart at once resolved, if necessary, to
bombard the town.

Taking the command of his ship with this intention, and putting all but
fighting men on board The Family, with orders to that vessel to keep in
company, Boldheart soon anchored in Margate Roads. Here he went ashore
well-armed, and attended by his boat's crew (at their head the faithful
though ferocious William), and demanded to see the Mayor, who came out
of his office.

"Dost know the name of yon ship, Mayor?" asked Boldheart fiercely.

[Illustration: "DOST KNOW THE NAME OF YON SHIP, MAYOR?"]

[Illustration: STANDING SENTRY OVER HIM]

"No," said the Mayor, rubbing his eyes, which he could scarce believe
when he saw the goodly vessel riding at anchor.

"She is named the Beauty," said the captain.

"Hah!" exclaimed the Mayor, with a start. "And you, then, are Captain
Boldheart?"

"The same."

A pause ensued. The Mayor trembled.

"Now, Mayor," said the captain, "choose. Help me to my Bride, or be
bombarded."

The Mayor begged for two hours' grace, in which to make inquiries
respecting the young lady. Boldheart accorded him but one; and during
that one placed William Boozey sentry over him, with a drawn sword and
instructions to accompany him wherever he went, and to run him through
the body if he showed a sign of playing false.

At the end of the hour, the Mayor re-appeared more dead than alive,
closely waited on by Boozey more alive than dead.

[Illustration: "His lovely Bride came forth"]

"Captain," said the Mayor, "I have ascertained that the young lady is
going to bathe. Even now she waits her turn for a machine. The tide is
low, though rising. I, in one of our town-boats, shall not be
suspected. When she comes forth in her bathing-dress into the shallow
water from behind 