tage of a witness' glances_._  How to
suggest another imputed meaning to a witness' statement and confuse him
into accepting it_.

Another happy and familiar form is Skimpin's interrogation of Winkle as
to his "friends"--

    'Are they here?'

    'Yes they are,' said Mr. Winkle, _looking very earnestly towards the
    spot where his friends were stationed_.

As every one attending courts knows, this is an almost intuitive movement
in a witness; he thinks it corroborates him somehow.

But how good Skimpin and how ready--

"'Pray attend to me, Mr. Winkle, and _never mind your friends_,' with
another expressive look at the jury; '_they must tell their stories
without any previous consultation with you_, if none has yet taken
place,' another expressive look.  'Now Sir, tell what you saw,' etc.
'_Come_, _out with it_, _sir_, _we must_ have it sooner or later.'"  The
assumption here that the witness would keep back what he knew is adroit
and very convincing.




A REVELATION.


But now we come to a very critical passage in Mr. Pickwick's case: one
that really destroyed any chance that he had.  It really settled the
matter with the jury; and the worst was, the point was brought out
through the inefficiency of his own counsel.

But let us hear the episode, and see how the foolish Phunky muddled it.

    Mr. Phunky rose for the purpose of getting something important out of
    Mr. Winkle in cross-examination.  Whether he did get anything
    important out of him, will immediately appear.

                          [Picture: Mr. Phunky]

    'I believe, Mr. Winkle,' said Mr. Phunky, 'that Mr. Pickwick is not a
    young man?'

    'Oh no,' replied Mr. Winkle, 'old enough to be my father.'

    'You have told my learned friend that you have known Mr. Pickwick a
    long time.  Had you ever any reason to suppose or believe that he was
    about to be married?'

    'Oh no; certainly not;' replied Mr. Winkle with so much eagerness,
    that Mr. Phunky ought to have got him out of the box with all
    possible dispatch.  Lawyers hold out that there are two kinds of
    particularly bad witnesses, a reluctant witness, and a too willing
    witness; it was Mr. Winkle's fate to figure in both characters.

    'I will even go further than this, Mr. Winkle,' continued Mr. Phunky,
    in a most smooth and complacent manner.  'Did you ever see any thing
    in Mr. Pickwick's manner and conduct towards the opposite sex to
    induce you to believe that he ever contemplated matrimony of late
    years, in any case?'

    'Oh no; certainly not,' replied Mr. Winkle.

    'Has his behaviour, when females have been in the case, always been
    that of a man, who having attained a pretty advanced period of life,
    content with his own occupations and amusements, treats them only as
    a father might his daughters?'

    'Not the least doubt of it,' replied Mr. Winkle, in the fulness of
    his heart.  'That is--yes--oh yes--certainly.'

    'You have never known anything in his behaviour towards Mrs. Bardell,
    or any other female, in the least degree suspicious?' said Mr.
    Phunky, preparing to sit down, for Serjeant Snubbin was winking at
    him.

    'N--n--no,' replied Mr. Winkle, 'except on one trifling occasion,
    which, I have no doubt, might be easily explained.'

    Now, if the unfortunate Mr. Phunky had sat down when Serjeant Snubbin
    winked at him, or if Serjeant Buzfuz had stopped this irregular
    cross-examination at the outset (which he knew better than to do, for
    observing Mr. Winkle's anxiety, and well knowing it would in all
    probability, lead to something serviceable to him), this unfortunate
    admission would not have been elicited.  The moment the words fell
    from Mr. Winkle's lips, Mr. Phunky sat down, and Serjeant Snubbin
    rather hastily told him he might leave the box, which Mr. Winkle
    prepared to do with great readiness, when Serjeant Buzfuz stopped
    him.

    'Stay, Mr. Winkle--stay,' said Serjeant Buzfuz, 'will your lordship
    have the goodness to ask him, what this one instance of suspicious
    behaviour towards females on the part of this gentlemen, who is old
    enough to be his father, was?'

    'You hear what the learned counsel says, Sir,' observed the Judge,
    turning to the miserable and agonized Mr. Winkle.  'Describe the
    occasion to which you refer.'

    'My lord,' said Mr. Winkle, trembling with anxiety, 'I--I'd rather
    not.'

And Winkle had to relate the whole Ipswich adventure of the doublebedded
room and the spinster lady.

It is surprising that Dodson and Fogg did not ferret out all about Mr.
Pickwick's adventure at the Great White Horse.  Peter Magnus lived in
town and must have heard of the coming case; these things _do_ somehow
leak out, and he would have gladly volunteered the story, were it only to
spite the man.  But further, Dodson and Fogg must have made all sorts of
enquiries into Mr. Pickwick's doings.  Mrs. Bardell herself might have
heard something.  The story was certainly in the Ipswich papers, for
there was the riot in the street, the appearan