ire
concurrence.

But the great joy of Miggs's heart was, that she not only picked up
a full account of what had happened, but had the exquisite delight of
conveying it to Mr Tappertit for his jealousy and torture. For that
gentleman, on account of Dolly's indisposition, had been requested to
take his supper in the workshop, and it was conveyed thither by Miss
Miggs's own fair hands.

'Oh Simmun!' said the young lady, 'such goings on to-day! Oh, gracious
me, Simmun!'

Mr Tappertit, who was not in the best of humours, and who disliked Miss
Miggs more when she laid her hand on her heart and panted for breath
than at any other time, as her deficiency of outline was most apparent
under such circumstances, eyed her over in his loftiest style, and
deigned to express no curiosity whatever.

'I never heard the like, nor nobody else,' pursued Miggs. 'The idea of
interfering with HER. What people can see in her to make it worth their
while to do so, that's the joke--he he he!'

Finding there was a lady in the case, Mr Tappertit haughtily requested
his fair friend to be more explicit, and demanded to know what she meant
by 'her.'

'Why, that Dolly,' said Miggs, with an extremely sharp emphasis on the
name. 'But, oh upon my word and honour, young Joseph Willet is a brave
one; and he do deserve her, that he do.'

'Woman!' said Mr Tappertit, jumping off the counter on which he was
seated; 'beware!'

'My stars, Simmun!' cried Miggs, in affected astonishment. 'You frighten
me to death! What's the matter?'

'There are strings,' said Mr Tappertit, flourishing his bread-and-cheese
knife in the air, 'in the human heart that had better not be wibrated.
That's what's the matter.'

'Oh, very well--if you're in a huff,' cried Miggs, turning away.

'Huff or no huff,' said Mr Tappertit, detaining her by the wrist. 'What
do you mean, Jezebel? What were you going to say? Answer me!'

Notwithstanding this uncivil exhortation, Miggs gladly did as she was
required; and told him how that their young mistress, being alone in
the meadows after dark, had been attacked by three or four tall men, who
would have certainly borne her away and perhaps murdered her, but for
the timely arrival of Joseph Willet, who with his own single hand put
them all to flight, and rescued her; to the lasting admiration of his
fellow-creatures generally, and to the eternal love and gratitude of
Dolly Varden.

'Very good,' said Mr Tappertit, fetching a long breath when the tale was
told, and rubbing his hair up till it stood stiff and straight on end
all over his head. 'His days are numbered.'

'Oh, Simmun!'

'I tell you,' said the 'prentice, 'his days are numbered. Leave me. Get
along with you.'

Miggs departed at his bidding, but less because of his bidding than
because she desired to chuckle in secret. When she had given vent to
her satisfaction, she returned to the parlour; where the locksmith,
stimulated by quietness and Toby, had become talkative, and was disposed
to take a cheerful review of the occurrences of the day. But Mrs
Varden, whose practical religion (as is not uncommon) was usually of the
retrospective order, cut him short by declaiming on the sinfulness of
such junketings, and holding that it was high time to go to bed. To bed
therefore she withdrew, with an aspect as grim and gloomy as that of the
Maypole's own state couch; and to bed the rest of the establishment soon
afterwards repaired.



Chapter 23


Twilight had given place to night some hours, and it was high noon
in those quarters of the town in which 'the world' condescended to
dwell--the world being then, as now, of very limited dimensions and
easily lodged--when Mr Chester reclined upon a sofa in his dressing-room
in the Temple, entertaining himself with a book.

He was dressing, as it seemed, by easy stages, and having performed half
the journey was taking a long rest. Completely attired as to his legs
and feet in the trimmest fashion of the day, he had yet the remainder of
his toilet to perform. The coat was stretched, like a refined scarecrow,
on its separate horse; the waistcoat was displayed to the best
advantage; the various ornamental articles of dress were severally set
out in most alluring order; and yet he lay dangling his legs between the
sofa and the ground, as intent upon his book as if there were nothing
but bed before him.

'Upon my honour,' he said, at length raising his eyes to the ceiling
with the air of a man who was reflecting seriously on what he had
read; 'upon my honour, the most masterly composition, the most delicate
thoughts, the finest code of morality, and the most gentlemanly
sentiments in the universe! Ah Ned, Ned, if you would but form your mind
by such precepts, we should have but one common feeling on every subject
that could possibly arise between us!'

This apostrophe was addressed, like the rest of his remarks, to empty
air: for Edward was not present, and the father was quite alone.

'My Lord Chesterfield,' he said, pressing his hand tenderly upon the
book as he laid it down, 'if I could but have profited by your genius
soon enough to have formed my son on the model 