coming contempt for the clerk
    and all things appertaining to 'the office,' placed upon the table.

    'Now Lowten,' said little Mr. Perker, shutting the door, 'what's the
    matter?  No important letter come in a parcel, is there?'

Do we not seem to be present?  We can never pass by Russell Square
without calling up the scene.  Note, too, the components of that legal
dinner.  Poor Sir F. Lockwood used to declare that he relished "Mr.
Prosee, the eminent counsel," more than any one of Boz's legal circle.
Yet these five words are all we know of him.  But Sir Frank had
imagination, and like some of us could read between the lines, or rather,
between the words.  Here was a prominent member of the Bar--was he K.C.?
a triton among the minnows--therefore heading the table, listened to with
reverence as he told of the judges, possibly of "old Stareleigh's" last
exhibition of petulance--"with it's high time for him to go, etc."  But
if he had not silk, why did not Perker retain him instead of the
incapable Phunky, whom he did _not_ ask on this occasion.  "I gave the
chap a good chance, but he destroyed my whole case!"  "Catch me letting
him put his legs under my mahogany."  Among the guests was that
"small-eyed, peremptory young gentleman"--the special pleader's pupil.
What a capital sketch has Boz given of him.  "He had written a _lively_
book about the law of demises, with a vast quantity of marginal notes and
references."  He had come with his teacher, who was no doubt highly
deferental to Mr. Prosee, but enough, the peremptory young gentleman may
have partly "tackled" the great man on some point of practice.  The good
country agencies must have gone home delighted with their evening.

But Mr. Prosee may be brought into somewhat closer communication with the
case.  At Perker's dinner the gentlemen had gone up to the drawing room,
when Perker was called down to hear the news of Mrs. Bardell's arrest.
Mr. Prosee was left expatiating to the circle on some beautiful "point,"
and when Perker returned how likely that he should tell of his
extraordinary client who had preferred to go to prison rather than pay
the costs of a suit, "and here," he would go on, "is the drollest sequel
you ever heard, &c."

"An odd unusual thing," Mr. Prosee would say.  "Plaintiff and Defendant,
both in jail together!  I never heard the like."  There would be much
laughter at the novel situation.  Thus the _cognovit_ would come up and
Mr. Prosee gravely say, "nothing will be done till an Act of Parliament
is passed.  The client should be protected by a fresh solicitor."  On
which the young author of the treatise on Demises would have something to
say in his best fashion; for the _cognovit_ might be taken to be a sort
of demise.  "I doubt Mr. Prosee, if your suggestion would work.  As I
take it, sir, etc."




RELEASE FROM THE FLEET.


But the circumstances connected with Mr. Pickwick's release from the
Fleet, show the adroitness and ability of Dodson in a high degree.  It
will be recollected that when Job rushed with the news to Perker, that
gentleman and his clerk broke out into raptuous admiration.

    'Now, Lowten,' said little Mr. Perker, shutting the door, 'what's the
    matter?  No important letter come in a parcel, is there?'

    'No, sir,' replied Lowten.  'This is a messenger from Mr. Pickwick,
    sir.'

    'From Pickwick, eh?' said the little man, turning quickly to Job.
    'Well; what is it?'

    'Dodson and Fogg have taken Mrs. Bardell in execution for her costs,
    sir,' said Job.

    'No!' exclaimed Perker, putting his hands in his pockets, and
    reclining against the sideboard.

    'Yes,' said Job.  'It seems they got a cognovit out of her for the
    amount of 'em, directly after the trial.'

    'By Jove!' said Perker, taking both hands out of his pockets and
    striking the knuckles of his right against the palm of his left,
    emphatically, 'those are the cleverest scamps I ever had anything to
    do with!'

    'The sharpest practitioners _I_ ever knew, sir,' observed Lowten.

    'Sharp!' echoed Perker.  'There's no knowing where to have them.'

    'Very true, sir, there is not,' replied Lowten; and then both master
    and man pondered for a few seconds, with animated countenances, as if
    they were reflecting upon one of the most beautiful and ingenious
    discoveries that the intellect of man had ever made.  When they had
    in some measure recovered from their trance of admiration, Job
    Trotter discharged himself of the rest of his commission.  Perker
    nodded his head thoughtfully, and pulled out his watch.

Now to the superficial this seemed to be evaded by the art of the firm in
"getting the cognovit out of her."  But this was an ordinary, vulgar
stroke--which anyone could have done.  Their policy went far deeper, and
this Perker was acute enough to recognize.  There was no object in
putting Mrs. Bardell into the Fleet.

They could no more get their costs out of her, than they could get them
out of Mr. Pickwick.  She had nothing but her few "sticks" of furniture,
worth say 50 pounds.  But the astute 