 their parents on this most important
point, is particularly injudicious. You are quite right. I ought to have
thought of that myself, but it escaped me, I confess--so far superior
are your sex to ours, dear madam, in point of penetration and sagacity.'

Mrs Varden looked as wise as if she had really said something to deserve
this compliment--firmly believed she had, in short--and her faith in her
own shrewdness increased considerably.

'My dear ma'am,' said Mr Chester, 'you embolden me to be plain with
you. My son and I are at variance on this point. The young lady and her
natural guardian differ upon it, also. And the closing point is, that my
son is bound by his duty to me, by his honour, by every solemn tie and
obligation, to marry some one else.'

'Engaged to marry another lady!' quoth Mrs Varden, holding up her hands.

'My dear madam, brought up, educated, and trained, expressly for that
purpose. Expressly for that purpose.--Miss Haredale, I am told, is a
very charming creature.'

'I am her foster-mother, and should know--the best young lady in the
world,' said Mrs Varden.

'I have not the smallest doubt of it. I am sure she is. And you, who
have stood in that tender relation towards her, are bound to consult her
happiness. Now, can I--as I have said to Haredale, who quite agrees--can
I possibly stand by, and suffer her to throw herself away (although she
IS of a Catholic family), upon a young fellow who, as yet, has no heart
at all? It is no imputation upon him to say he has not, because young
men who have plunged deeply into the frivolities and conventionalities
of society, very seldom have. Their hearts never grow, my dear ma'am,
till after thirty. I don't believe, no, I do NOT believe, that I had any
heart myself when I was Ned's age.'

'Oh sir,' said Mrs Varden, 'I think you must have had. It's impossible
that you, who have so much now, can ever have been without any.'

'I hope,' he answered, shrugging his shoulders meekly, 'I have a little;
I hope, a very little--Heaven knows! But to return to Ned; I have no
doubt you thought, and therefore interfered benevolently in his behalf,
that I objected to Miss Haredale. How very natural! My dear madam, I
object to him--to him--emphatically to Ned himself.'

Mrs Varden was perfectly aghast at the disclosure.

'He has, if he honourably fulfils this solemn obligation of which I have
told you--and he must be honourable, dear Mrs Varden, or he is no son
of mine--a fortune within his reach. He is of most expensive, ruinously
expensive habits; and if, in a moment of caprice and wilfulness, he
were to marry this young lady, and so deprive himself of the means
of gratifying the tastes to which he has been so long accustomed, he
would--my dear madam, he would break the gentle creature's heart. Mrs
Varden, my good lady, my dear soul, I put it to you--is such a sacrifice
to be endured? Is the female heart a thing to be trifled with in this
way? Ask your own, my dear madam. Ask your own, I beseech you.'

'Truly,' thought Mrs Varden, 'this gentleman is a saint. But,' she added
aloud, and not unnaturally, 'if you take Miss Emma's lover away, sir,
what becomes of the poor thing's heart then?'

'The very point,' said Mr Chester, not at all abashed, 'to which I
wished to lead you. A marriage with my son, whom I should be compelled
to disown, would be followed by years of misery; they would be
separated, my dear madam, in a twelvemonth. To break off this
attachment, which is more fancied than real, as you and I know very
well, will cost the dear girl but a few tears, and she is happy again.
Take the case of your own daughter, the young lady downstairs, who is
your breathing image'--Mrs Varden coughed and simpered--'there is a
young man (I am sorry to say, a dissolute fellow, of very
indifferent character) of whom I have heard Ned speak--Bullet was
it--Pullet--Mullet--'

'There is a young man of the name of Joseph Willet, sir,' said Mrs
Varden, folding her hands loftily.

'That's he,' cried Mr Chester. 'Suppose this Joseph Willet now, were to
aspire to the affections of your charming daughter, and were to engage
them.'

'It would be like his impudence,' interposed Mrs Varden, bridling, 'to
dare to think of such a thing!'

'My dear madam, that's the whole case. I know it would be like his
impudence. It is like Ned's impudence to do as he has done; but you
would not on that account, or because of a few tears from your beautiful
daughter, refrain from checking their inclinations in their birth. I
meant to have reasoned thus with your husband when I saw him at Mrs
Rudge's this evening--'

'My husband,' said Mrs Varden, interposing with emotion, 'would be a
great deal better at home than going to Mrs Rudge's so often. I don't
know what he does there. I don't see what occasion he has to busy
himself in her affairs at all, sir.'

'If I don't appear to express my concurrence in those last sentiments of
yours,' returned Mr Chester, 'quite so strongly as you might desire,
it is because his being there, my dear madam, and not proving
conversational, led me hither, and procured me the happiness of
this