gs--his perfect legs, the pride
and glory of his life, the comfort of his existence--crushed into
shapeless ugliness. Wondering no longer at the moans they had heard,
Dolly kept closer to her father, and shuddered at the sight; but neither
bruises, burns, nor gun-shot wound, nor all the torture of his shattered
limbs, sent half so keen a pang to Simon's breast, as Dolly passing out,
with Joe for her preserver.

A coach was ready at the door, and Dolly found herself safe and whole
inside, between her father and mother, with Emma Haredale and her uncle,
quite real, sitting opposite. But there was no Joe, no Edward; and they
had said nothing. They had only bowed once, and kept at a distance. Dear
heart! what a long way it was to the Black Lion!



Chapter 72


The Black Lion was so far off, and occupied such a length of time in the
getting at, that notwithstanding the strong presumptive evidence she had
about her of the late events being real and of actual occurrence, Dolly
could not divest herself of the belief that she must be in a dream which
was lasting all night. Nor was she quite certain that she saw and heard
with her own proper senses, even when the coach, in the fulness of time,
stopped at the Black Lion, and the host of that tavern approached in a
gush of cheerful light to help them to dismount, and give them hearty
welcome.

There too, at the coach door, one on one side, one upon the other, were
already Edward Chester and Joe Willet, who must have followed in another
coach: and this was such a strange and unaccountable proceeding, that
Dolly was the more inclined to favour the idea of her being fast asleep.
But when Mr Willet appeared--old John himself--so heavy-headed and
obstinate, and with such a double chin as the liveliest imagination
could never in its boldest flights have conjured up in all its vast
proportions--then she stood corrected, and unwillingly admitted to
herself that she was broad awake.

And Joe had lost an arm--he--that well-made, handsome, gallant fellow!
As Dolly glanced towards him, and thought of the pain he must have
suffered, and the far-off places in which he had been wandering, and
wondered who had been his nurse, and hoped that whoever it was, she
had been as kind and gentle and considerate as she would have been,
the tears came rising to her bright eyes, one by one, little by little,
until she could keep them back no longer, and so before them all, wept
bitterly.

'We are all safe now, Dolly,' said her father, kindly. 'We shall not be
separated any more. Cheer up, my love, cheer up!'

The locksmith's wife knew better perhaps, than he, what ailed her
daughter. But Mrs Varden being quite an altered woman--for the riots had
done that good--added her word to his, and comforted her with similar
representations.

'Mayhap,' said Mr Willet, senior, looking round upon the company, 'she's
hungry. That's what it is, depend upon it--I am, myself.'

The Black Lion, who, like old John, had been waiting supper past all
reasonable and conscionable hours, hailed this as a philosophical
discovery of the profoundest and most penetrating kind; and the table
being already spread, they sat down to supper straightway.

The conversation was not of the liveliest nature, nor were the appetites
of some among them very keen. But, in both these respects, old John more
than atoned for any deficiency on the part of the rest, and very much
distinguished himself.

It was not in point of actual conversation that Mr Willet shone so
brilliantly, for he had none of his old cronies to 'tackle,' and was
rather timorous of venturing on Joe; having certain vague misgivings
within him, that he was ready on the shortest notice, and on receipt of
the slightest offence, to fell the Black Lion to the floor of his own
parlour, and immediately to withdraw to China or some other remote and
unknown region, there to dwell for evermore, or at least until he had
got rid of his remaining arm and both legs, and perhaps an eye or so,
into the bargain. It was with a peculiar kind of pantomime that Mr
Willet filled up every pause; and in this he was considered by the Black
Lion, who had been his familiar for some years, quite to surpass and
go beyond himself, and outrun the expectations of his most admiring
friends.

The subject that worked in Mr Willet's mind, and occasioned these
demonstrations, was no other than his son's bodily disfigurement, which
he had never yet got himself thoroughly to believe, or comprehend.
Shortly after their first meeting, he had been observed to wander, in
a state of great perplexity, to the kitchen, and to direct his gaze
towards the fire, as if in search of his usual adviser in all matters of
doubt and difficulty. But there being no boiler at the Black Lion, and
the rioters having so beaten and battered his own that it was quite
unfit for further service, he wandered out again, in a perfect bog of
uncertainty and mental confusion, and in that state took the strangest
means of resolving his doubts: such as feeling the sleeve of his son's
greatcoat as deeming it possible that his arm might be there; looking at
his