at a window he'd look quite young by candle-light, and might
frighten 'em very much.--Oh dear!--well!--we'll see about it.'

'Stop!' cried Mr Haredale, pressing the door open as the porter strove
to shut it, and speaking rapidly, 'My Lord Mayor, I beg you not to go
away. I have a man here, who committed a murder eight-and-twenty years
ago. Half-a-dozen words from me, on oath, will justify you in committing
him to prison for re-examination. I only seek, just now, to have him
consigned to a place of safety. The least delay may involve his being
rescued by the rioters.'

'Oh dear me!' cried the Lord Mayor. 'God bless my soul--and body--oh
Lor!--well I!--there are great people at the bottom of these riots, you
know.--You really mustn't.'

'My lord,' said Mr Haredale, 'the murdered gentleman was my brother; I
succeeded to his inheritance; there were not wanting slanderous tongues
at that time, to whisper that the guilt of this most foul and cruel deed
was mine--mine, who loved him, as he knows, in Heaven, dearly. The time
has come, after all these years of gloom and misery, for avenging him,
and bringing to light a crime so artful and so devilish that it has no
parallel. Every second's delay on your part loosens this man's bloody
hands again, and leads to his escape. My lord, I charge you hear me, and
despatch this matter on the instant.'

'Oh dear me!' cried the chief magistrate; 'these an't business
hours, you know--I wonder at you--how ungentlemanly it is of you--you
mustn't--you really mustn't.--And I suppose you are a Catholic too?'

'I am,' said Mr Haredale.

'God bless my soul, I believe people turn Catholics a'purpose to vex
and worrit me,' cried the Lord Mayor. 'I wish you wouldn't come here;
they'll be setting the Mansion House afire next, and we shall have you
to thank for it. You must lock your prisoner up, sir--give him to a
watchman--and--call again at a proper time. Then we'll see about it!'

Before Mr Haredale could answer, the sharp closing of a door and drawing
of its bolts, gave notice that the Lord Mayor had retreated to his
bedroom, and that further remonstrance would be unavailing. The two
clients retreated likewise, and the porter shut them out into the
street.

'That's the way he puts me off,' said the old gentleman, 'I can get no
redress and no help. What are you going to do, sir?'

'To try elsewhere,' answered Mr Haredale, who was by this time on
horseback.

'I feel for you, I assure you--and well I may, for we are in a common
cause,' said the old gentleman. 'I may not have a house to offer you
to-night; let me tender it while I can. On second thoughts though,' he
added, putting up a pocket-book he had produced while speaking, 'I'll
not give you a card, for if it was found upon you, it might get you
into trouble. Langdale--that's my name--vintner and distiller--Holborn
Hill--you're heartily welcome, if you'll come.'

Mr Haredale bowed, and rode off, close beside the chaise as before;
determining to repair to the house of Sir John Fielding, who had the
reputation of being a bold and active magistrate, and fully resolved, in
case the rioters should come upon them, to do execution on the murderer
with his own hands, rather than suffer him to be released.

They arrived at the magistrate's dwelling, however, without molestation
(for the mob, as we have seen, were then intent on deeper schemes), and
knocked at the door. As it had been pretty generally rumoured that Sir
John was proscribed by the rioters, a body of thief-takers had been
keeping watch in the house all night. To one of them Mr Haredale stated
his business, which appearing to the man of sufficient moment to warrant
his arousing the justice, procured him an immediate audience.

No time was lost in committing the murderer to Newgate; then a new
building, recently completed at a vast expense, and considered to be of
enormous strength. The warrant being made out, three of the thief-takers
bound him afresh (he had been struggling, it seemed, in the chaise, and
had loosened his manacles); gagged him lest they should meet with any
of the mob, and he should call to them for help; and seated themselves,
along with him, in the carriage. These men being all well armed, made
a formidable escort; but they drew up the blinds again, as though the
carriage were empty, and directed Mr Haredale to ride forward, that he
might not attract attention by seeming to belong to it.

The wisdom of this proceeding was sufficiently obvious, for as they
hurried through the city they passed among several groups of men, who,
if they had not supposed the chaise to be quite empty, would certainly
have stopped it. But those within keeping quite close, and the driver
tarrying to be asked no questions, they reached the prison without
interruption, and, once there, had him out, and safe within its gloomy
walls, in a twinkling.

With eager eyes and strained attention, Mr Haredale saw him chained, and
locked and barred up in his cell. Nay, when he had left the jail, and
stood in the free street, without, he felt the iron plates upon the
doors, with his hands, and drew them over the ston