low, and his huge chest heaving with the sounds which so unwontedly
disturbed the place and hour.

He who came upon him so unexpectedly was about to break his rest by
thrusting him with his foot, when, glancing at his upturned face, he
arrested himself in the very action, and stooping down and shading the
candle with his hand, examined his features closely. Close as his first
inspection was, it did not suffice, for he passed the light, still
carefully shaded as before, across and across his face, and yet observed
him with a searching eye.

While he was thus engaged, the sleeper, without any starting or turning
round, awoke. There was a kind of fascination in meeting his steady gaze
so suddenly, which took from the other the presence of mind to withdraw
his eyes, and forced him, as it were, to meet his look. So they remained
staring at each other, until Mr Chester at last broke silence, and asked
him in a low voice, why he lay sleeping there.

'I thought,' said Hugh, struggling into a sitting posture and gazing at
him intently, still, 'that you were a part of my dream. It was a curious
one. I hope it may never come true, master.'

'What makes you shiver?'

'The--the cold, I suppose,' he growled, as he shook himself and rose. 'I
hardly know where I am yet.'

'Do you know me?' said Mr Chester.

'Ay, I know you,' he answered. 'I was dreaming of you--we're not where I
thought we were. That's a comfort.'

He looked round him as he spoke, and in particular looked above his
head, as though he half expected to be standing under some object
which had had existence in his dream. Then he rubbed his eyes and shook
himself again, and followed his conductor into his own rooms.

Mr Chester lighted the candles which stood upon his dressing-table, and
wheeling an easy-chair towards the fire, which was yet burning, stirred
up a cheerful blaze, sat down before it, and bade his uncouth visitor
'Come here,' and draw his boots off.

'You have been drinking again, my fine fellow,' he said, as Hugh went
down on one knee, and did as he was told.

'As I'm alive, master, I've walked the twelve long miles, and waited
here I don't know how long, and had no drink between my lips since
dinner-time at noon.'

'And can you do nothing better, my pleasant friend, than fall asleep,
and shake the very building with your snores?' said Mr Chester. 'Can't
you dream in your straw at home, dull dog as you are, that you need come
here to do it?--Reach me those slippers, and tread softly.'

Hugh obeyed in silence.

'And harkee, my dear young gentleman,' said Mr Chester, as he put them
on, 'the next time you dream, don't let it be of me, but of some dog or
horse with whom you are better acquainted. Fill the glass once--you'll
find it and the bottle in the same place--and empty it to keep yourself
awake.'

Hugh obeyed again even more zealously--and having done so, presented
himself before his patron.

'Now,' said Mr Chester, 'what do you want with me?'

'There was news to-day,' returned Hugh. 'Your son was at our house--came
down on horseback. He tried to see the young woman, but couldn't get
sight of her. He left some letter or some message which our Joe had
charge of, but he and the old one quarrelled about it when your son had
gone, and the old one wouldn't let it be delivered. He says (that's the
old one does) that none of his people shall interfere and get him into
trouble. He's a landlord, he says, and lives on everybody's custom.'

'He's a jewel,' smiled Mr Chester, 'and the better for being a dull
one.--Well?'

'Varden's daughter--that's the girl I kissed--'

'--and stole the bracelet from upon the king's highway,' said Mr
Chester, composedly. 'Yes; what of her?'

'She wrote a note at our house to the young woman, saying she lost the
letter I brought to you, and you burnt. Our Joe was to carry it, but
the old one kept him at home all next day, on purpose that he shouldn't.
Next morning he gave it to me to take; and here it is.'

'You didn't deliver it then, my good friend?' said Mr Chester, twirling
Dolly's note between his finger and thumb, and feigning to be surprised.

'I supposed you'd want to have it,' retorted Hugh. 'Burn one, burn all,
I thought.'

'My devil-may-care acquaintance,' said Mr Chester--'really if you do not
draw some nicer distinctions, your career will be cut short with most
surprising suddenness. Don't you know that the letter you brought to
me, was directed to my son who resides in this very place? And can you
descry no difference between his letters and those addressed to other
people?'

'If you don't want it,' said Hugh, disconcerted by this reproof, for he
had expected high praise, 'give it me back, and I'll deliver it. I don't
know how to please you, master.'

'I shall deliver it,' returned his patron, putting it away after a
moment's consideration, 'myself. Does the young lady walk out, on fine
mornings?'

'Mostly--about noon is her usual time.'

'Alone?'

'Yes, alone.'

'Where?'

'In the grounds before the house.--Them that the footpath crosses.'

'If the weather should be fine, I may throw myself in her way to-morrow,
perhaps,' said 