foes.

He had hardly done so, when he observed that those who advanced were a
gentleman and his servant; almost at the same moment he recognised Lord
George Gordon, before whom he stood uncovered, with his eyes turned
towards the ground.

'Good day!' said Lord George, not reining in his horse until he was
close beside him. 'Well!'

'All quiet, sir, all safe!' cried Barnaby. 'The rest are away--they went
by that path--that one. A grand party!'

'Ay?' said Lord George, looking thoughtfully at him. 'And you?'

'Oh! They left me here to watch--to mount guard--to keep everything
secure till they come back. I'll do it, sir, for your sake. You're a
good gentleman; a kind gentleman--ay, you are. There are many against
you, but we'll be a match for them, never fear!'

'What's that?' said Lord George--pointing to the raven who was peeping
out of the stable-door--but still looking thoughtfully, and in some
perplexity, it seemed, at Barnaby.

'Why, don't you know!' retorted Barnaby, with a wondering laugh. 'Not
know what HE is! A bird, to be sure. My bird--my friend--Grip.'

'A devil, a kettle, a Grip, a Polly, a Protestant, no Popery!' cried the
raven.

'Though, indeed,' added Barnaby, laying his hand upon the neck of Lord
George's horse, and speaking softly: 'you had good reason to ask me what
he is, for sometimes it puzzles me--and I am used to him--to think
he's only a bird. He's my brother, Grip is--always with me--always
talking--always merry--eh, Grip?'

The raven answered by an affectionate croak, and hopping on his master's
arm, which he held downward for that purpose, submitted with an air of
perfect indifference to be fondled, and turned his restless, curious
eye, now upon Lord George, and now upon his man.

Lord George, biting his nails in a discomfited manner, regarded Barnaby
for some time in silence; then beckoning to his servant, said:

'Come hither, John.'

John Grueby touched his hat, and came.

'Have you ever seen this young man before?' his master asked in a low
voice.

'Twice, my lord,' said John. 'I saw him in the crowd last night and
Saturday.'

'Did--did it seem to you that his manner was at all wild or strange?'
Lord George demanded, faltering.

'Mad,' said John, with emphatic brevity.

'And why do you think him mad, sir?' said his master, speaking in a
peevish tone. 'Don't use that word too freely. Why do you think him
mad?'

'My lord,' John Grueby answered, 'look at his dress, look at his eyes,
look at his restless way, hear him cry "No Popery!" Mad, my lord.'

'So because one man dresses unlike another,' returned his angry master,
glancing at himself; 'and happens to differ from other men in his
carriage and manner, and to advocate a great cause which the corrupt and
irreligious desert, he is to be accounted mad, is he?'

'Stark, staring, raving, roaring mad, my lord,' returned the unmoved
John.

'Do you say this to my face?' cried his master, turning sharply upon
him.

'To any man, my lord, who asks me,' answered John.

'Mr Gashford, I find, was right,' said Lord George; 'I thought him
prejudiced, though I ought to have known a man like him better than to
have supposed it possible!'

'I shall never have Mr Gashford's good word, my lord,' replied John,
touching his hat respectfully, 'and I don't covet it.'

'You are an ill-conditioned, most ungrateful fellow,' said Lord George:
'a spy, for anything I know. Mr Gashford is perfectly correct, as I
might have felt convinced he was. I have done wrong to retain you in
my service. It is a tacit insult to him as my choice and confidential
friend to do so, remembering the cause you sided with, on the day he was
maligned at Westminster. You will leave me to-night--nay, as soon as we
reach home. The sooner the better.'

'If it comes to that, I say so too, my lord. Let Mr Gashford have his
will. As to my being a spy, my lord, you know me better than to believe
it, I am sure. I don't know much about causes. My cause is the cause of
one man against two hundred; and I hope it always will be.'

'You have said quite enough,' returned Lord George, motioning him to go
back. 'I desire to hear no more.'

'If you'll let me have another word, my lord,' returned John Grueby,
'I'd give this silly fellow a caution not to stay here by himself. The
proclamation is in a good many hands already, and it's well known that
he was concerned in the business it relates to. He had better get to a
place of safety if he can, poor creature.'

'You hear what this man says?' cried Lord George, addressing Barnaby,
who had looked on and wondered while this dialogue passed. 'He thinks
you may be afraid to remain upon your post, and are kept here perhaps
against your will. What do you say?'

'I think, young man,' said John, in explanation, 'that the soldiers may
turn out and take you; and that if they do, you will certainly be hung
by the neck till you're dead--dead--dead. And I think you had better go
from here, as fast as you can. That's what I think.'

'He's a coward, Grip, a coward!' cried Barnaby, putting the raven on the
ground, and shouldering his staff. 'Let them come! Gordon for ever! Let
them c