proposal, and have added his suspicions on recalling Mr.
Pickwick's ambiguous declaration that he had come down to expose a
certain person--even one of his own sympathetic friends, who had
witnessed the scene with Mrs. Bardell, and recalled the Boarding House
incident, might murmur, "How odd that he is ever thus in pursuit of the
fair under suspicious circumstances? _could_ it be that after all?--What
if he had some previous knowledge of the lady, and secretly admired her,
and stung to fury at the notion of Mr. Peter Magnus marrying, had taken
this strange mode of declaring his passion?"  Even the sagacious Sam,
devoted as he was to his master, was taken aback on meeting him in his
midnight wanderings.

    'Sam,' said Mr. Pickwick, suddenly appearing before him, 'Where's my
    bedroom?'

    Mr. Weller stared at his master with the most emphatic surprise; and
    it was not until the question had been repeated three several times,
    that he turned round, and led the way to the long-sought apartment.

    'Sam,' said Mr. Pickwick, as he got into bed, 'I have made one of the
    most extraordinary mistakes to-night, that ever were heard of.'

    'Werry likely, Sir,' replied Mr. Weller, drily.

    'But of this I am determined, Sam,' said Mr. Pickwick, 'that if I
    were to stop in this house for six months, I would never trust myself
    about it alone, again.'

    'That's the wery prudentest resolution as you could come to, Sir,'
    replied Mr. Weller.  'You rayther want somebody to look arter you,
    Sir, ven your judgment goes out a wisitin'.'

    'What do you mean by that, Sam?' said Mr. Pickwick.  He raised
    himself in bed, and extended his hand, as if he were about to say
    something more; but suddenly checking himself, turned round, and bade
    his valet 'Good night.'

    'Good night, Sir,' replied Mr. Weller.  He paused when he got outside
    the door--shook his head--walked on--stopped--snuffed the
    candle--shook his head again--and finally proceeded slowly to his
    chamber, apparently buried in the profoundest meditation.

It will be seen that Sam went near to being disrespectful in his
sceptical view of his master's story.

When Mrs. Sanders was examined, "the Court" put a few questions to her,
as to the customs of love-making among persons of her position.  She had
"received love letters, like other ladies.  In the course of their
correspondence Mr. Sanders had often called her a 'duck' but never
'chops' or 'tomato sauce.'  He was particularly fond of ducks.  Perhaps
if he had been as fond of chops and tomato sauce, he might have called
her that, as a term of affection."

Mrs. Sanders was clearly one of the same class as Mrs. Cluppins, and
chiefly deposed to the general impression in the neighbourhood that Mr.
Pickwick had "offered" for Mrs. Bardell.  Tupman, Snodgrass and Sam were
also examined.  Being friends of the defendant, they were from the outset
assumed to be "hostile" and treated accordingly.  It may be doubted,
however, whether it is permissible to treat "your own witnesses" in this
rough fashion, until at least they have shown some overt signs of their
hostility, either by reserve, or an obvious determination to let as
little as possible be extracted from them.  In such case, it is usual to
apply to the court for its sanction to deal with them by the severity of
cross examination.

When Sam entered the witness box, the Serjeant addressed him: "I believe
you are in the service of Mr. Pickwick, the Defendant in this case.
_Speak up_, _if you please_, _Mr. Weller_."  Sam had not had time to say
anything, so the admonition might seem superfluous.  But this is a
well-known device.  Sam had been "briefed" to the Serjeant as a rather
dangerous witness--somewhat too wide awake.  It was necessary therefore
to be short and summary with him.  He thus conveyed to the jury that this
Sam was one whom he could address in this curt way, and who by his low,
uncertain accents might try to hide the truth.  Sam, however,
disconcerted the plan by his prompt, ready answer, "I _mean_ to speak up,
sir."  Sam, as we know, clearly brought out the Dodson and Fogg's
damaging assurance to Mrs. Bardell, that no costs should be charged to
her personally.

When the Plaintiff's case was closed, things did not look particularly
bright for Mr. Pickwick.  It had been shown on the evidence of his own
friends that he had been surprised with his landlady in his arms; (2)
That he had been corresponding with her on most familiar terms--at least
Serjeant Buzfuz had made it appear so; (3) Language that _almost_
amounted to a proposal had been overheard; (4) And finally, it had been
revealed that the Defendant had been "caught" in a lady's bedroom, at an
Inn, at midnight!  To answer which a "strong" case was absolutely
essential.  This, we grieve to say, was not forthcoming.




THE DEFENDANT'S CASE.


When we listen to the defence set up for Mr. Pickwick we have to lament
that that worthy gentleman was not better served by his legal advisers.

On the other side the shrewd Dodson and Fogg had done admirably for their
client