ip over; and that the machinery, by some
surprising process of condensation, worked between it and the keel: the
whole forming a warm sandwich, about three feet thick.

It rained all day as I once thought it never did rain anywhere, but in
the Highlands of Scotland.  The river was full of floating blocks of ice,
which were constantly crunching and cracking under us; and the depth of
water, in the course we took to avoid the larger masses, carried down the
middle of the river by the current, did not exceed a few inches.
Nevertheless, we moved onward, dexterously; and being well wrapped up,
bade defiance to the weather, and enjoyed the journey.  The Connecticut
River is a fine stream; and the banks in summer-time are, I have no
doubt, beautiful; at all events, I was told so by a young lady in the
cabin; and she should be a judge of beauty, if the possession of a
quality include the appreciation of it, for a more beautiful creature I
never looked upon.

After two hours and a half of this odd travelling (including a stoppage
at a small town, where we were saluted by a gun considerably bigger than
our own chimney), we reached Hartford, and straightway repaired to an
extremely comfortable hotel: except, as usual, in the article of
bedrooms, which, in almost every place we visited, were very conducive to
early rising.

We tarried here, four days.  The town is beautifully situated in a basin
of green hills; the soil is rich, well-wooded, and carefully improved.
It is the seat of the local legislature of Connecticut, which sage body
enacted, in bygone times, the renowned code of ‘Blue Laws,’ in virtue
whereof, among other enlightened provisions, any citizen who could be
proved to have kissed his wife on Sunday, was punishable, I believe, with
the stocks.  Too much of the old Puritan spirit exists in these parts to
the present hour; but its influence has not tended, that I know, to make
the people less hard in their bargains, or more equal in their dealings.
As I never heard of its working that effect anywhere else, I infer that
it never will, here.  Indeed, I am accustomed, with reference to great
professions and severe faces, to judge of the goods of the other world
pretty much as I judge of the goods of this; and whenever I see a dealer
in such commodities with too great a display of them in his window, I
doubt the quality of the article within.

In Hartford stands the famous oak in which the charter of King Charles
was hidden.  It is now inclosed in a gentleman’s garden.  In the State
House is the charter itself.  I found the courts of law here, just the
same as at Boston; the public institutions almost as good.  The Insane
Asylum is admirably conducted, and so is the Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb.

I very much questioned within myself, as I walked through the Insane
Asylum, whether I should have known the attendants from the patients, but
for the few words which passed between the former, and the Doctor, in
reference to the persons under their charge.  Of course I limit this
remark merely to their looks; for the conversation of the mad people was
mad enough.

There was one little, prim old lady, of very smiling and good-humoured
appearance, who came sidling up to me from the end of a long passage, and
with a curtsey of inexpressible condescension, propounded this
unaccountable inquiry:

‘Does Pontefract still flourish, sir, upon the soil of England?’

‘He does, ma’am,’ I rejoined.

‘When you last saw him, sir, he was—’

‘Well, ma’am,’ said I, ‘extremely well.  He begged me to present his
compliments.  I never saw him looking better.’

At this, the old lady was very much delighted.  After glancing at me for
a moment, as if to be quite sure that I was serious in my respectful air,
she sidled back some paces; sidled forward again; made a sudden skip (at
which I precipitately retreated a step or two); and said:

‘_I_ am an antediluvian, sir.’

I thought the best thing to say was, that I had suspected as much from
the first.  Therefore I said so.

‘It is an extremely proud and pleasant thing, sir, to be an
antediluvian,’ said the old lady.

‘I should think it was, ma’am,’ I rejoined.

The old lady kissed her hand, gave another skip, smirked and sidled down
the gallery in a most extraordinary manner, and ambled gracefully into
her own bed-chamber.

In another part of the building, there was a male patient in bed; very
much flushed and heated.

‘Well,’ said he, starting up, and pulling off his night-cap: ‘It’s all
settled at last.  I have arranged it with Queen Victoria.’

‘Arranged what?’ asked the Doctor.

‘Why, that business,’ passing his hand wearily across his forehead,
‘about the siege of New York.’

‘Oh!’ said I, like a man suddenly enlightened.  For he looked at me for
an answer.

‘Yes.  Every house without a signal will be fired upon by the British
troops.  No harm will be done to the others.  No harm at all.  Those that
want to be safe, must hoist flags.  That’s all they’ll have to do.  They
must hoist flags.’

Even while he was speaking he seemed, I thought, to have some faint idea
that his talk was incoherent.  Directly 