or two
which I shall leave among your children when I die."

"Morleena Kenwigs," cried her mother, "go down on your knees to your
dear uncle, and beg him to love you all his life through; for he's more
an angel than a man, and I've always said so."

Just as all were happy again, everyone was startled by a rapid
succession of the loudest and shrillest shrieks, apparently coming from
the room where the baby was asleep.

"My baby, my blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed baby! My own darling,
sweet, innocent Lillyvick! Let me go-o-o-o," screamed Mrs. Kenwigs.

Mr. Kenwigs rushed out, and was met at the door of the bedroom by a
young man with the baby (upside down) in his arms, who came out so
quickly that he knocked Mr. Kenwigs down; handing the child to his
mother, he said, "Don't be alarmed, it's all out, it's all over--the
little girl, being tired, I suppose, fell asleep and set her hair on
fire. I heard her cries and ran up in time to prevent her setting fire
to anything else. The child is not hurt: I took it off the bed myself
and brought it here to convince you."

After they had all talked over this last excitement, and discussed
little Lillyvick's deliverer, the collector pulled out his watch and
announced that it was nearly two o'clock, and as the poor children had
been for some time obliged to keep their little eyes open with their
little forefingers, the company took leave, declaring they had never
spent such a delightful evening, and that they wished Mr. and Mrs.
Kenwigs had a wedding-day once a week.




LITTLE DORRIT.


Many years ago, when people could be put in prison for debt, a poor
gentleman, who was unfortunate enough to lose all his money, was brought
to the Marshalsea prison. As there seemed no prospect of being able to
pay his debts, his wife and their two little children came to live there
with him. The elder child was a boy of three; the younger a little girl
of two years old, and not long afterwards another little girl was born.
The three children played in the courtyard, and were happy, on the
whole, for they were too young to remember a happier state of things.

But the youngest child, who had never been outside the prison walls, was
a thoughtful little creature, and wondered what the outside world could
be like. Her great friend, the turnkey, who was also her godfather,
became very fond of her, and as soon as she could walk and talk, he
bought a little arm-chair and stood it by his fire at the lodge, and
coaxed her with cheap toys to come and sit with him.

One day, she was sitting in the lodge gazing wistfully up at the sky
through the barred window. The turnkey, after watching her some time,
said:--

"Thinking of the fields, ain't you?"

"Where are they?" she asked.

"Why, they're--over there, my dear," said the turnkey, waving his key
vaguely, "just about there."

"Does anybody open them and shut them? Are they locked?"

"Well," said the turnkey, discomfited, "not in general."

"Are they pretty, Bob?" She called him Bob, because he wished it.

"Lovely. Full of flowers. There's buttercups, and there's daisies, and
there's--" here he hesitated, not knowing the names of many
flowers--"there's dandelions, and all manner of games."

"Is it very pleasant to be there, Bob?"

"Prime," said the turnkey.

"Was father ever there?"

"Hem!" coughed the turnkey. "O yes, he was there, sometimes."

"Is he sorry not to be there now?"

"N--not particular," said the turnkey.

"Nor any of the people?" she asked, glancing at the listless crowd
within. "O are you quite sure and certain, Bob?"

At this point, Bob gave in and changed the subject. But after this chat,
the turnkey and little Amy would go out on his free Sunday afternoons to
some meadows or green lanes, and she would pick grass and flowers to
bring home, while he smoked his pipe.

When Amy was only eight years old, her mother died, and the poor father
was more helpless and broken-down than ever, and as Fanny was a careless
child, and Edward idle, the little one, who had the bravest and truest
heart, was inspired by her love and unselfishness to be the little
mother of the forlorn family, and struggled to get some little education
for herself and her brother and sister. She went as often as she could
to an evening school outside, and managed to get her brother and sister
sent to a day-school at intervals, during three or four years. At
thirteen, she could read and keep accounts. Once, amongst the debtors, a
dancing-master came in, and as Fanny had a great desire to learn
dancing, little Amy went timidly to the new prisoner, and said,

"If you please, I was born here, sir."

"Oh! You are the young lady, are you?" said he.

"Yes, sir."

"And what can I do for you?"

"Nothing for me, sir, thank you; but if, while you stay here, you could
be so kind as to teach my sister cheap."

"My child, I'll teach her for nothing," said the dancing-master.

Fanny was a very apt pupil, and the good-natured dancing-master went on
giving her lessons even after his release, and Amy was so emboldened
with the success of her attempt that, when a milliner came in, she went
to her on h