jesty, and the Law, and
Parliament, for so many years, and don't--don't let me die--because of a
mistake.'

'Dennis,' said the governor of the jail, 'you know what the course
is, and that the order came with the rest. You know that we could do
nothing, even if we would.'

'All I ask, sir,--all I want and beg, is time, to make it sure,' cried
the trembling wretch, looking wildly round for sympathy. 'The King and
Government can't know it's me; I'm sure they can't know it's me; or they
never would bring me to this dreadful slaughterhouse. They know my name,
but they don't know it's the same man. Stop my execution--for charity's
sake stop my execution, gentlemen--till they can be told that I've
been hangman here, nigh thirty year. Will no one go and tell them?' he
implored, clenching his hands and glaring round, and round, and round
again--'will no charitable person go and tell them!'

'Mr Akerman,' said a gentleman who stood by, after a moment's pause,
'since it may possibly produce in this unhappy man a better frame of
mind, even at this last minute, let me assure him that he was well known
to have been the hangman, when his sentence was considered.'

'--But perhaps they think on that account that the punishment's not so
great,' cried the criminal, shuffling towards this speaker on his knees,
and holding up his folded hands; 'whereas it's worse, it's worse a
hundred times, to me than any man. Let them know that, sir. Let them
know that. They've made it worse to me by giving me so much to do. Stop
my execution till they know that!'

The governor beckoned with his hand, and the two men, who had supported
him before, approached. He uttered a piercing cry:

'Wait! Wait. Only a moment--only one moment more! Give me a last chance
of reprieve. One of us three is to go to Bloomsbury Square. Let me be
the one. It may come in that time; it's sure to come. In the Lord's name
let me be sent to Bloomsbury Square. Don't hang me here. It's murder.'

They took him to the anvil: but even then he could be heard above the
clinking of the smiths' hammers, and the hoarse raging of the crowd,
crying that he knew of Hugh's birth--that his father was living, and
was a gentleman of influence and rank--that he had family secrets in his
possession--that he could tell nothing unless they gave him time, but
must die with them on his mind; and he continued to rave in this sort
until his voice failed him, and he sank down a mere heap of clothes
between the two attendants.

It was at this moment that the clock struck the first stroke of twelve,
and the bell began to toll. The various officers, with the two sheriffs
at their head, moved towards the door. All was ready when the last chime
came upon the ear.

They told Hugh this, and asked if he had anything to say.

'To say!' he cried. 'Not I. I'm ready.--Yes,' he added, as his eye fell
upon Barnaby, 'I have a word to say, too. Come hither, lad.'

There was, for the moment, something kind, and even tender, struggling
in his fierce aspect, as he wrung his poor companion by the hand.

'I'll say this,' he cried, looking firmly round, 'that if I had ten
lives to lose, and the loss of each would give me ten times the agony
of the hardest death, I'd lay them all down--ay, I would, though you
gentlemen may not believe it--to save this one. This one,' he added,
wringing his hand again, 'that will be lost through me.'

'Not through you,' said the idiot, mildly. 'Don't say that. You were
not to blame. You have always been very good to me.--Hugh, we shall know
what makes the stars shine, NOW!'

'I took him from her in a reckless mood, and didn't think what harm
would come of it,' said Hugh, laying his hand upon his head, and
speaking in a lower voice. 'I ask her pardon; and his.--Look here,' he
added roughly, in his former tone. 'You see this lad?'

They murmured 'Yes,' and seemed to wonder why he asked.

'That gentleman yonder--' pointing to the clergyman--'has often in the
last few days spoken to me of faith, and strong belief. You see what
I am--more brute than man, as I have been often told--but I had faith
enough to believe, and did believe as strongly as any of you gentlemen
can believe anything, that this one life would be spared. See what he
is!--Look at him!'

Barnaby had moved towards the door, and stood beckoning him to follow.

'If this was not faith, and strong belief!' cried Hugh, raising his
right arm aloft, and looking upward like a savage prophet whom the near
approach of Death had filled with inspiration, 'where are they! What
else should teach me--me, born as I was born, and reared as I have
been reared--to hope for any mercy in this hardened, cruel, unrelenting
place! Upon these human shambles, I, who never raised this hand in
prayer till now, call down the wrath of God! On that black tree, of
which I am the ripened fruit, I do invoke the curse of all its victims,
past, and present, and to come. On the head of that man, who, in his
conscience, owns me for his son, I leave the wish that he may never
sicken on his bed of down, but die a violent death as I do now, and have
the night-wind for his only mou