w voice some passage having
reference to the topic in which they were all so deeply interested. But
the great attraction was a pamphlet called The Thunderer, which espoused
their own opinions, and was supposed at that time to emanate directly
from the Association. This was always in request; and whether read
aloud, to an eager knot of listeners, or by some solitary man, was
certain to be followed by stormy talking and excited looks.

In the midst of all his merriment, and admiration of his captain, Hugh
was made sensible by these and other tokens, of the presence of an air
of mystery, akin to that which had so much impressed him out of doors.
It was impossible to discard a sense that something serious was going
on, and that under the noisy revel of the public-house, there lurked
unseen and dangerous matter. Little affected by this, however, he was
perfectly satisfied with his quarters and would have remained there till
morning, but that his conductor rose soon after midnight, to go home; Mr
Tappertit following his example, left him no excuse to stay. So they all
three left the house together: roaring a No-Popery song until the fields
resounded with the dismal noise.

Cheer up, captain!' cried Hugh, when they had roared themselves out of
breath. 'Another stave!'

Mr Tappertit, nothing loath, began again; and so the three went
staggering on, arm-in-arm, shouting like madmen, and defying the watch
with great valour. Indeed this did not require any unusual bravery or
boldness, as the watchmen of that time, being selected for the office
on account of excessive age and extraordinary infirmity, had a custom
of shutting themselves up tight in their boxes on the first symptoms
of disturbance, and remaining there until they disappeared. In these
proceedings, Mr Dennis, who had a gruff voice and lungs of considerable
power, distinguished himself very much, and acquired great credit with
his two companions.

'What a queer fellow you are!' said Mr Tappertit. 'You're so precious
sly and close. Why don't you ever tell what trade you're of?'

'Answer the captain instantly,' cried Hugh, beating his hat down on his
head; 'why don't you ever tell what trade you're of?'

'I'm of as gen-teel a calling, brother, as any man in England--as light
a business as any gentleman could desire.'

'Was you 'prenticed to it?' asked Mr Tappertit.

'No. Natural genius,' said Mr Dennis. 'No 'prenticing. It come
by natur'. Muster Gashford knows my calling. Look at that hand of
mine--many and many a job that hand has done, with a neatness and
dexterity, never known afore. When I look at that hand,' said Mr
Dennis, shaking it in the air, 'and remember the helegant bits of work
it has turned off, I feel quite molloncholy to think it should ever grow
old and feeble. But sich is life!'

He heaved a deep sigh as he indulged in these reflections, and putting
his fingers with an absent air on Hugh's throat, and particularly under
his left ear, as if he were studying the anatomical development of that
part of his frame, shook his head in a despondent manner and actually
shed tears.

'You're a kind of artist, I suppose--eh!' said Mr Tappertit.

'Yes,' rejoined Dennis; 'yes--I may call myself a artist--a fancy
workman--art improves natur'--that's my motto.'

'And what do you call this?' said Mr Tappertit taking his stick out of
his hand.

'That's my portrait atop,' Dennis replied; 'd'ye think it's like?'

'Why--it's a little too handsome,' said Mr Tappertit. 'Who did it? You?'

'I!' repeated Dennis, gazing fondly on his image. 'I wish I had the
talent. That was carved by a friend of mine, as is now no more. The very
day afore he died, he cut that with his pocket-knife from memory! "I'll
die game," says my friend, "and my last moments shall be dewoted to
making Dennis's picter." That's it.'

'That was a queer fancy, wasn't it?' said Mr Tappertit.

'It WAS a queer fancy,' rejoined the other, breathing on his fictitious
nose, and polishing it with the cuff of his coat, 'but he was a queer
subject altogether--a kind of gipsy--one of the finest, stand-up men,
you ever see. Ah! He told me some things that would startle you a bit,
did that friend of mine, on the morning when he died.'

'You were with him at the time, were you?' said Mr Tappertit.

'Yes,' he answered with a curious look, 'I was there. Oh! yes certainly,
I was there. He wouldn't have gone off half as comfortable without me. I
had been with three or four of his family under the same circumstances.
They were all fine fellows.'

'They must have been fond of you,' remarked Mr Tappertit, looking at him
sideways.

'I don't know that they was exactly fond of me,' said Dennis, with a
little hesitation, 'but they all had me near 'em when they departed. I
come in for their wardrobes too. This very handkecher that you see round
my neck, belonged to him that I've been speaking of--him as did that
likeness.'

Mr Tappertit glanced at the article referred to, and appeared to think
that the deceased's ideas of dress were of a peculiar and by no means an
expensive kind. He made no remark upon the point, however, and suffered
his my