You can
spare him better.'

The young fellow who held the light, and who was stooping down before
the door, rose hastily at these words, and fell back. The locksmith ran
his eye along the upturned faces, and kept the weapon levelled at the
threshold of his house. It had no other rest than his shoulder, but was
as steady as the house itself.

'Let the man who does it, take heed to his prayers,' he said firmly; 'I
warn him.'

Snatching a torch from one who stood near him, Hugh was stepping forward
with an oath, when he was arrested by a shrill and piercing shriek, and,
looking upward, saw a fluttering garment on the house-top.

There was another shriek, and another, and then a shrill voice cried,
'Is Simmun below!' At the same moment a lean neck was stretched over
the parapet, and Miss Miggs, indistinctly seen in the gathering gloom
of evening, screeched in a frenzied manner, 'Oh! dear gentlemen, let me
hear Simmuns's answer from his own lips. Speak to me, Simmun. Speak to
me!'

Mr Tappertit, who was not at all flattered by this compliment, looked
up, and bidding her hold her peace, ordered her to come down and open
the door, for they wanted her master, and would take no denial.

'Oh good gentlemen!' cried Miss Miggs. 'Oh my own precious, precious
Simmun--'

'Hold your nonsense, will you!' retorted Mr Tappertit; 'and come down
and open the door.--G. Varden, drop that gun, or it will be worse for
you.'

'Don't mind his gun,' screamed Miggs. 'Simmun and gentlemen, I poured a
mug of table-beer right down the barrel.'

The crowd gave a loud shout, which was followed by a roar of laughter.

'It wouldn't go off, not if you was to load it up to the muzzle,'
screamed Miggs. 'Simmun and gentlemen, I'm locked up in the front attic,
through the little door on the right hand when you think you've got to
the very top of the stairs--and up the flight of corner steps, being
careful not to knock your heads against the rafters, and not to tread on
one side in case you should fall into the two-pair bedroom through the
lath and plasture, which do not bear, but the contrairy. Simmun and
gentlemen, I've been locked up here for safety, but my endeavours has
always been, and always will be, to be on the right side--the blessed
side and to prenounce the Pope of Babylon, and all her inward and
her outward workings, which is Pagin. My sentiments is of little
consequences, I know,' cried Miggs, with additional shrillness, 'for my
positions is but a servant, and as sich, of humilities, still I gives
expressions to my feelings, and places my reliances on them which
entertains my own opinions!'

Without taking much notice of these outpourings of Miss Miggs after she
had made her first announcement in relation to the gun, the crowd
raised a ladder against the window where the locksmith stood, and
notwithstanding that he closed, and fastened, and defended it manfully,
soon forced an entrance by shivering the glass and breaking in the
frames. After dealing a few stout blows about him, he found himself
defenceless, in the midst of a furious crowd, which overflowed the room
and softened off in a confused heap of faces at the door and window.

They were very wrathful with him (for he had wounded two men), and
even called out to those in front, to bring him forth and hang him on
a lamp-post. But Gabriel was quite undaunted, and looked from Hugh and
Dennis, who held him by either arm, to Simon Tappertit, who confronted
him.

'You have robbed me of my daughter,' said the locksmith, 'who is far
dearer to me than my life; and you may take my life, if you will. I
bless God that I have been enabled to keep my wife free of this scene;
and that He has made me a man who will not ask mercy at such hands as
yours.'

'And a wery game old gentleman you are,' said Mr Dennis, approvingly;
'and you express yourself like a man. What's the odds, brother, whether
it's a lamp-post to-night, or a feather-bed ten year to come, eh?'

The locksmith glanced at him disdainfully, but returned no other answer.

'For my part,' said the hangman, who particularly favoured the lamp-post
suggestion, 'I honour your principles. They're mine exactly. In such
sentiments as them,' and here he emphasised his discourse with an oath,
'I'm ready to meet you or any man halfway.--Have you got a bit of cord
anywheres handy? Don't put yourself out of the way, if you haven't. A
handkecher will do.'

'Don't be a fool, master,' whispered Hugh, seizing Varden roughly by
the shoulder; 'but do as you're bid. You'll soon hear what you're wanted
for. Do it!'

'I'll do nothing at your request, or that of any scoundrel here,'
returned the locksmith. 'If you want any service from me, you may spare
yourselves the pains of telling me what it is. I tell you, beforehand,
I'll do nothing for you.'

Mr Dennis was so affected by this constancy on the part of the staunch
old man, that he protested--almost with tears in his eyes--that to baulk
his inclinations would be an act of cruelty and hard dealing to which
he, for one, never could reconcile his conscience. The gentleman, he
said, had avowed in so many words that he was re