Our hero put the crew on short allowance,
and put himself on shorter allowance than any man in the ship. But his
spirit kept him fat. In this extremity, the gratitude of Boozey, the
captain of the foretop whom our readers may remember, was truly
affecting. The loving though lowly William repeatedly requested to be
killed, and preserved for the captain's table.

We now approach a change in affairs.

One day during a gleam of sunshine and when the weather had moderated,
the man at the masthead--too weak now to touch his hat, besides its
having been blown away--called out,

"Savages!"

All was now expectation.

Presently fifteen hundred canoes, each paddled by twenty savages, were
seen advancing in excellent order. They were a light green colour (the
Savages were), and sang, with great energy, the following strain:

  Choo a choo a choo tooth.
    Muntch, muntch. Nycey!
  Choo a choo a choo tooth.
    Muntch, muntch. Nyce!

As the shades of night were by this time closing in, these expressions
were supposed to embody this simple people's views of the Evening Hymn.
But it too soon appeared that the song was a translation of "For what
we are going to receive," &c.

The chief, imposingly decorated with feathers of lively colours, and
having the majestic appearance of a fighting Parrot, no sooner
understood (he understood English perfectly) that the ship was The
Beauty, Captain Boldheart, than he fell upon his face on the deck, and
could not be persuaded to rise until the captain had lifted him up, &
told him he wouldn't hurt him. All the rest of the savages also fell on
their faces with marks of terror, and had also to be lifted up one by
one. Thus the fame of the great Boldheart had gone before him, even
among these children of Nature.

Turtles and oysters were now produced in astonishing numbers, and on
these and yams the people made a hearty meal. After dinner the Chief
told Captain Boldheart that there was better feeding up at the village,
and that he would be glad to take him and his officers there.
Apprehensive of treachery, Boldheart ordered his boat's crew to attend
him completely armed. And well were it for other commanders if their
precautions--but let us not anticipate.

[Illustration: "Arm-in-arm with the Chief"]

[Illustration: "TWO SAVAGES FLOURED HIM BEFORE PUTTING HIM TO THE
FIRE."]

When the canoes arrived at the beach, the darkness of the night was
illumined by the light of an immense fire. Ordering his boat's crew
(with the intrepid though illiterate William at their head) to keep
close and be upon their guard, Boldheart bravely went on, arm-in-arm
with the Chief.

But how to depict the captain's surprise when he found a ring of Savages
singing in chorus that barbarous translation of "For what we are going
to receive, &c.," which has been given above, and dancing hand-in-hand
round the Latin-Grammar-Master, in a hamper with his head shaved, while
two savages floured him, before putting him to the fire to be cooked!

Boldheart now took counsel with his officers on the course to be
adopted. In the mean time, the miserable captive never ceased begging
pardon and imploring to be delivered. On the generous Boldheart's
proposal, it was at length resolved that he should not be cooked, but
should be allowed to remain raw, on two conditions. Namely,

     1. That he should never under any circumstances presume to teach
     any boy any thing any more.

     2. That, if taken back to England, he should pass his life in
     travelling to find out boys who wanted their exercises done, and
     should do their exercises for those boys for nothing, and never say
     a word about it.

Drawing his sword from its sheath, Boldheart swore him to these
conditions on its shining blade. The prisoner wept bitterly, and
appeared acutely to feel the errors of his past career.

The captain then ordered his boat's crew to make ready for a volley, and
after firing to re-load quickly. "And expect a score or two on ye to go
head over heels," murmured William Boozey; "for I'm a looking at ye."
With those words the derisive though deadly William took a good aim.

"Fire!"

The ringing voice of Boldheart was lost in the report of the guns and
the screeching of the savages. Volley after volley awakened the numerous
echoes. Hundreds of savages were killed, hundreds wounded, and thousands
ran howling into the woods. The Latin-Grammar-Master had a spare
night-cap lent him, and a longtail coat which he wore hind side
before. He presented a ludicrous though pitiable appearance, and serve
him right.

[Illustration: "THE LATIN-GRAMMAR-MASTER HAD A SPARE NIGHTCAP LENT HIM
AND A LONGTAIL COAT WHICH HE WORE HIND SIDE BEFORE."]

[Illustration: "ERE THE SUN WENT DOWN FULL MANY A HORNPIPE HAD BEEN
DANCED ... BY THE UNCOUTH THOUGH AGILE WILLIAM."]

We now find Captain Boldheart, with this rescued wretch on board,
standing off for other islands. At one of these, not a cannibal island,
but a pork and vegetable one, he married (only in fun on his part) the
King's daughter. Here he rested some time, receiving from the natives
great quantities of precious stones,