ained by one idea--that they were flying from disgrace and crime,
and that her grandfather's preservation must depend solely upon her
firmness; the old man following as though she had been an angel
messenger sent to lead him where she would.

They slept in the open air that night, and on the following morning some
men offered to take them a long distance on their barge. These men,
though they were not unkindly, drank and quarrelled among themselves, to
Nell's inexpressible terror. It rained, too, heavily, and she was wet
and cold. At last they reached the great city whither the barge was
bound, and here they wandered up and down, being now penniless, and
watched the faces of those who passed, to find among them a ray of
encouragement or hope.

They laid down that night, and the next night too, with nothing between
them and the sky; a penny loaf was all they had had that day, and when
the third morning came, it found the child much weaker, yet she made no
complaint. Faint and spiritless as they were, the streets were
insupportable; and the child, throughout the remainder of that hard day,
compelled herself to press on, that they might reach the country.
Evening was drawing on; they were dragging themselves through the last
street. Seeing a traveller on foot before them, she shot on before her
grandfather and began in a few faint words to implore the stranger's
help. He turned his head, the child uttered a wild shriek, and fell
senseless at his feet. It was the village schoolmaster who had been so
kind to them before.

The good man took her in his arms and carried her quickly to a little
inn hard by, where she was tenderly put to bed and where a doctor
arrived with all speed. The schoolmaster, as it appeared, was on his way
to a new home. And when the child had recovered somewhat from her
exhaustion, it was arranged that she and her grandfather should
accompany him to the village whither he was bound, and that he should
endeavor to find them some humble occupation by which they could
subsist.

It was a secluded village, lying among the quiet country scenes Nell
loved. And here, her grandfather being tranquil and at rest, a great
peace fell upon the spirit of the child. Often she would steal into the
church, and sit down among the quiet figures carved upon the tombs. What
if the spot awakened thoughts of death? It would be no pain to sleep
here. For the time was drawing nearer every day when Nell was to rest
indeed. She never murmured or complained, but faded like a light upon a
summer's evening and died. Day after day and all day long, the old man,
broken-hearted and with no love or care for anything in life, would sit
beside her grave with her straw hat and the little basket she had been
used to carry, waiting till she should come to him again. At last they
found him lying dead upon the stone. And in the church where they had
often prayed and mused and lingered, hand in hand, the child and the old
man slept together.




LITTLE DAVID COPPERFIELD.


Little David Copperfield lived with his mother in a pretty house in the
village of Blunderstone in Suffolk. His father died before David could
remember anything and he had neither brothers nor sisters. He was fondly
loved by his pretty young mother, and their kind, good servant Peggotty,
and David was a very happy little fellow. They had very few friends, and
the only relation Mrs. Copperfield talked about was an aunt of David's
father, a tall and rather terrible old lady, from all accounts. One
visitor, a tall dark gentleman, David did not like at all, and he was
rather inclined to be jealous that his mother should be friendly with
the stranger.

One day Peggotty, the servant, asked David if he would like to go with
her on a visit to her brother at Yarmouth.

"Is your brother an agreeable man, Peggotty?" he enquired.

"Oh, what an agreeable man he is!" cried Peggotty. "Then there's the
sea, and the boats and ships, and the fishermen, and the beach. And 'Am
to play with."

Ham was her nephew. David was quite anxious to go when he heard of all
these delights; but his mother, what would she do all alone? Peggotty
told him his mother was going to pay a visit to some friends, and would
be sure to let him go. So all was arranged, and they were to start the
next day in the carrier's cart. When they arrived at Yarmouth, they
found Ham waiting to meet them. He was a great strong fellow, six feet
high, and took David on his back and the box under his arm to carry both
to the house. David was delighted to find that this house was made of a
real big black boat, with a door and windows cut in the side, and an
iron funnel sticking out of the roof for a chimney. Inside, it was very
cosy and clean, and David had a tiny bedroom in the stern. He was very
much pleased to find a dear little girl, about his own age, to play
with, and soon discovered that she and Ham were orphans, children of Mr.
Peggotty's brother and sister, whose fathers had been drowned at sea, so
kind Mr. Peggotty had taken them to live with him. David was very happy
in this queer house, playing on the beach with Em'ly, as they ca