is life, that he might have the satisfaction of
passing his hand up the back, and rubbing it the wrong way.

We had another odd specimen on board, of a different kind.  This was a
thin-faced, spare-figured man of middle age and stature, dressed in a
dusty drabbish-coloured suit, such as I never saw before.  He was
perfectly quiet during the first part of the journey: indeed I don’t
remember having so much as seen him until he was brought out by
circumstances, as great men often are.  The conjunction of events which
made him famous, happened, briefly, thus.

The canal extends to the foot of the mountain, and there, of course, it
stops; the passengers being conveyed across it by land carriage, and
taken on afterwards by another canal boat, the counterpart of the first,
which awaits them on the other side.  There are two canal lines of
passage-boats; one is called The Express, and one (a cheaper one) The
Pioneer.  The Pioneer gets first to the mountain, and waits for the
Express people to come up; both sets of passengers being conveyed across
it at the same time.  We were the Express company; but when we had
crossed the mountain, and had come to the second boat, the proprietors
took it into their beads to draft all the Pioneers into it likewise, so
that we were five-and-forty at least, and the accession of passengers was
not at all of that kind which improved the prospect of sleeping at night.
Our people grumbled at this, as people do in such cases; but suffered the
boat to be towed off with the whole freight aboard nevertheless; and away
we went down the canal.  At home, I should have protested lustily, but
being a foreigner here, I held my peace.  Not so this passenger.  He
cleft a path among the people on deck (we were nearly all on deck), and
without addressing anybody whomsoever, soliloquised as follows:

‘This may suit _you_, this may, but it don’t suit _me_.  This may be all
very well with Down Easters, and men of Boston raising, but it won’t suit
my figure nohow; and no two ways about _that_; and so I tell you.  Now!
I’m from the brown forests of Mississippi, _I_ am, and when the sun
shines on me, it does shine—a little.  It don’t glimmer where _I_ live,
the sun don’t.  No.  I’m a brown forester, I am.  I an’t a Johnny Cake.
There are no smooth skins where I live.  We’re rough men there.  Rather.
If Down Easters and men of Boston raising like this, I’m glad of it, but
I’m none of that raising nor of that breed.  No.  This company wants a
little fixing, _it_ does.  I’m the wrong sort of man for ’em, _I_ am.
They won’t like me, _they_ won’t.  This is piling of it up, a little too
mountainous, this is.’  At the end of every one of these short sentences
he turned upon his heel, and walked the other way; checking himself
abruptly when he had finished another short sentence, and turning back
again.

It is impossible for me to say what terrific meaning was hidden in the
words of this brown forester, but I know that the other passengers looked
on in a sort of admiring horror, and that presently the boat was put back
to the wharf, and as many of the Pioneers as could be coaxed or bullied
into going away, were got rid of.

When we started again, some of the boldest spirits on board, made bold to
say to the obvious occasion of this improvement in our prospects, ‘Much
obliged to you, sir;’ whereunto the brown forester (waving his hand, and
still walking up and down as before), replied, ‘No you an’t.  You’re none
o’ my raising.  You may act for yourselves, _you_ may.  I have pinted out
the way.  Down Easters and Johnny Cakes can follow if they please.  I
an’t a Johnny Cake, I an’t.  I am from the brown forests of the
Mississippi, I am’—and so on, as before.  He was unanimously voted one of
the tables for his bed at night—there is a great contest for the
tables—in consideration for his public services: and he had the warmest
corner by the stove throughout the rest of the journey.  But I never
could find out that he did anything except sit there; nor did I hear him
speak again until, in the midst of the bustle and turmoil of getting the
luggage ashore in the dark at Pittsburg, I stumbled over him as he sat
smoking a cigar on the cabin steps, and heard him muttering to himself,
with a short laugh of defiance, ‘I an’t a Johnny Cake,—I an’t.  I’m from
the brown forests of the Mississippi, I am, damme!’  I am inclined to
argue from this, that he had never left off saying so; but I could not
make an affidavit of that part of the story, if required to do so by my
Queen and Country.

As we have not reached Pittsburg yet, however, in the order of our
narrative, I may go on to remark that breakfast was perhaps the least
desirable meal of the day, as in addition to the many savoury odours
arising from the eatables already mentioned, there were whiffs of gin,
whiskey, brandy, and rum, from the little bar hard by, and a decided
seasoning of stale tobacco.  Many of the gentlemen passengers were far
from particular in respect of their linen, which was in some cases as
yellow as the little rivulets that had trickled from the corners of their
mouths 