 heard the Parliament prayed for, and thought
how many new hanging laws they made every sessions, I considered that I
was prayed for. Now mind, Muster Gashford,' said the fellow, taking
up his stick and shaking it with a ferocious air, 'I mustn't have
my Protestant work touched, nor this here Protestant state of things
altered in no degree, if I can help it; I mustn't have no Papists
interfering with me, unless they come to be worked off in course of law;
I mustn't have no biling, no roasting, no frying--nothing but hanging.
My lord may well call me an earnest fellow. In support of the great
Protestant principle of having plenty of that, I'll,' and here he beat
his club upon the ground, 'burn, fight, kill--do anything you bid me, so
that it's bold and devilish--though the end of it was, that I got hung
myself.--There, Muster Gashford!'

He appropriately followed up this frequent prostitution of a noble word
to the vilest purposes, by pouring out in a kind of ecstasy at least
a score of most tremendous oaths; then wiped his heated face upon his
neckerchief, and cried, 'No Popery! I'm a religious man, by G--!'

Gashford had leant back in his chair, regarding him with eyes so sunken,
and so shadowed by his heavy brows, that for aught the hangman saw of
them, he might have been stone blind. He remained smiling in silence for
a short time longer, and then said, slowly and distinctly:

'You are indeed an earnest fellow, Dennis--a most valuable fellow--the
staunchest man I know of in our ranks. But you must calm yourself;
you must be peaceful, lawful, mild as any lamb. I am sure you will be
though.'

'Ay, ay, we shall see, Muster Gashford, we shall see. You won't have to
complain of me,' returned the other, shaking his head.

'I am sure I shall not,' said the secretary in the same mild tone, and
with the same emphasis. 'We shall have, we think, about next month, or
May, when this Papist relief bill comes before the house, to convene our
whole body for the first time. My lord has thoughts of our walking
in procession through the streets--just as an innocent display of
strength--and accompanying our petition down to the door of the House of
Commons.'

'The sooner the better,' said Dennis, with another oath.

'We shall have to draw up in divisions, our numbers being so large; and,
I believe I may venture to say,' resumed Gashford, affecting not to
hear the interruption, 'though I have no direct instructions to that
effect--that Lord George has thought of you as an excellent leader for
one of these parties. I have no doubt you would be an admirable one.'

'Try me,' said the fellow, with an ugly wink.

'You would be cool, I know,' pursued the secretary, still smiling, and
still managing his eyes so that he could watch him closely, and really
not be seen in turn, 'obedient to orders, and perfectly temperate. You
would lead your party into no danger, I am certain.'

'I'd lead them, Muster Gashford,'--the hangman was beginning in a
reckless way, when Gashford started forward, laid his finger on his
lips, and feigned to write, just as the door was opened by John Grueby.

'Oh!' said John, looking in; 'here's another Protestant.'

'Some other room, John,' cried Gashford in his blandest voice. 'I am
engaged just now.'

But John had brought this new visitor to the door, and he walked
in unbidden, as the words were uttered; giving to view the form and
features, rough attire, and reckless air, of Hugh.



Chapter 38


The secretary put his hand before his eyes to shade them from the glare
of the lamp, and for some moments looked at Hugh with a frowning brow,
as if he remembered to have seen him lately, but could not call to mind
where, or on what occasion. His uncertainty was very brief, for before
Hugh had spoken a word, he said, as his countenance cleared up:

'Ay, ay, I recollect. It's quite right, John, you needn't wait. Don't
go, Dennis.'

'Your servant, master,' said Hugh, as Grueby disappeared.

'Yours, friend,' returned the secretary in his smoothest manner. 'What
brings YOU here? We left nothing behind us, I hope?'

Hugh gave a short laugh, and thrusting his hand into his breast,
produced one of the handbills, soiled and dirty from lying out of doors
all night, which he laid upon the secretary's desk after flattening it
upon his knee, and smoothing out the wrinkles with his heavy palm.

'Nothing but that, master. It fell into good hands, you see.'

'What is this!' said Gashford, turning it over with an air of perfectly
natural surprise. 'Where did you get it from, my good fellow; what does
it mean? I don't understand this at all.'

A little disconcerted by this reception, Hugh looked from the secretary
to Dennis, who had risen and was standing at the table too, observing
the stranger by stealth, and seeming to derive the utmost satisfaction
from his manners and appearance. Considering himself silently appealed
to by this action, Mr Dennis shook his head thrice, as if to say of
Gashford, 'No. He don't know anything at all about it. I know he don't.
I'll take my oath he don't;' and hiding his profile from Hugh with one
long end of his frow