t when the merriment
was at its height, felt it a check upon their mirthful mood to see him
flitting to and fro like an uneasy ghost. At last the guests departed,
one and all; and then the house was close shut up, and became as dull
and silent as the rest.

His wanderings brought him at one time to the city jail. Instead of
hastening from it as a place of ill omen, and one he had cause to shun,
he sat down on some steps hard by, and resting his chin upon his hand,
gazed upon its rough and frowning walls as though even they became a
refuge in his jaded eyes. He paced it round and round, came back to the
same spot, and sat down again. He did this often, and once, with a hasty
movement, crossed to where some men were watching in the prison lodge,
and had his foot upon the steps as though determined to accost them. But
looking round, he saw that the day began to break, and failing in his
purpose, turned and fled.

He was soon in the quarter he had lately traversed, and pacing to and
fro again as he had done before. He was passing down a mean street, when
from an alley close at hand some shouts of revelry arose, and there came
straggling forth a dozen madcaps, whooping and calling to each other,
who, parting noisily, took different ways and dispersed in smaller
groups.

Hoping that some low place of entertainment which would afford him a
safe refuge might be near at hand, he turned into this court when they
were all gone, and looked about for a half-opened door, or lighted
window, or other indication of the place whence they had come. It was
so profoundly dark, however, and so ill-favoured, that he concluded they
had but turned up there, missing their way, and were pouring out again
when he observed them. With this impression, and finding there was no
outlet but that by which he had entered, he was about to turn, when from
a grating near his feet a sudden stream of light appeared, and the sound
of talking came. He retreated into a doorway to see who these talkers
were, and to listen to them.

The light came to the level of the pavement as he did this, and a man
ascended, bearing in his hand a torch. This figure unlocked and held
open the grating as for the passage of another, who presently
appeared, in the form of a young man of small stature and uncommon
self-importance, dressed in an obsolete and very gaudy fashion.

'Good night, noble captain,' said he with the torch. 'Farewell,
commander. Good luck, illustrious general!'

In return to these compliments the other bade him hold his tongue, and
keep his noise to himself, and laid upon him many similar injunctions,
with great fluency of speech and sternness of manner.

'Commend me, captain, to the stricken Miggs,' returned the torch-bearer
in a lower voice. 'My captain flies at higher game than Miggses. Ha, ha,
ha! My captain is an eagle, both as respects his eye and soaring wings.
My captain breaketh hearts as other bachelors break eggs at breakfast.'

'What a fool you are, Stagg!' said Mr Tappertit, stepping on the
pavement of the court, and brushing from his legs the dust he had
contracted in his passage upward.

'His precious limbs!' cried Stagg, clasping one of his ankles. 'Shall a
Miggs aspire to these proportions! No, no, my captain. We will inveigle
ladies fair, and wed them in our secret cavern. We will unite ourselves
with blooming beauties, captain.'

'I'll tell you what, my buck,' said Mr Tappertit, releasing his leg;
'I'll trouble you not to take liberties, and not to broach certain
questions unless certain questions are broached to you. Speak when
you're spoke to on particular subjects, and not otherways. Hold
the torch up till I've got to the end of the court, and then kennel
yourself, do you hear?'

'I hear you, noble captain.'

'Obey then,' said Mr Tappertit haughtily. 'Gentlemen, lead on!' With
which word of command (addressed to an imaginary staff or retinue) he
folded his arms, and walked with surpassing dignity down the court.

His obsequious follower stood holding the torch above his head, and then
the observer saw for the first time, from his place of concealment, that
he was blind. Some involuntary motion on his part caught the quick
ear of the blind man, before he was conscious of having moved an inch
towards him, for he turned suddenly and cried, 'Who's there?'

'A man,' said the other, advancing. 'A friend.'

'A stranger!' rejoined the blind man. 'Strangers are not my friends.
What do you do there?'

'I saw your company come out, and waited here till they were gone. I
want a lodging.'

'A lodging at this time!' returned Stagg, pointing towards the dawn as
though he saw it. 'Do you know the day is breaking?'

'I know it,' rejoined the other, 'to my cost. I have been traversing
this iron-hearted town all night.'

'You had better traverse it again,' said the blind man, preparing to
descend, 'till you find some lodgings suitable to your taste. I don't
let any.'

'Stay!' cried the other, holding him by the arm.

'I'll beat this light about that hangdog face of yours (for hangdog it
is, if it answers to your voice), and rouse the neighbourhood besides,
if you