e bent upon one desperate
purpose, infuriated with liquor, and flushed with successful riot.
The word being given to surround the house, some climbed the gates, or
dropped into the shallow trench and scaled the garden wall, while others
pulled down the solid iron fence, and while they made a breach to
enter by, made deadly weapons of the bars. The house being completely
encircled, a small number of men were despatched to break open a
tool-shed in the garden; and during their absence on this errand, the
remainder contented themselves with knocking violently at the doors, and
calling to those within, to come down and open them on peril of their
lives.

No answer being returned to this repeated summons, and the detachment
who had been sent away, coming back with an accession of pickaxes,
spades, and hoes, they,--together with those who had such arms already,
or carried (as many did) axes, poles, and crowbars,--struggled into the
foremost rank, ready to beset the doors and windows. They had not at
this time more than a dozen lighted torches among them; but when these
preparations were completed, flaming links were distributed and passed
from hand to hand with such rapidity, that, in a minute's time, at
least two-thirds of the whole roaring mass bore, each man in his hand,
a blazing brand. Whirling these about their heads they raised a loud
shout, and fell to work upon the doors and windows.

Amidst the clattering of heavy blows, the rattling of broken glass, the
cries and execrations of the mob, and all the din and turmoil of the
scene, Hugh and his friends kept together at the turret-door where Mr
Haredale had last admitted him and old John Willet; and spent their
united force on that. It was a strong old oaken door, guarded by good
bolts and a heavy bar, but it soon went crashing in upon the narrow
stairs behind, and made, as it were, a platform to facilitate their
tearing up into the rooms above. Almost at the same moment, a dozen
other points were forced, and at every one the crowd poured in like
water.

A few armed servant-men were posted in the hall, and when the rioters
forced an entrance there, they fired some half-a-dozen shots. But these
taking no effect, and the concourse coming on like an army of devils,
they only thought of consulting their own safety, and retreated, echoing
their assailants' cries, and hoping in the confusion to be taken
for rioters themselves; in which stratagem they succeeded, with the
exception of one old man who was never heard of again, and was said
to have had his brains beaten out with an iron bar (one of his fellows
reported that he had seen the old man fall), and to have been afterwards
burnt in the flames.

The besiegers being now in complete possession of the house, spread
themselves over it from garret to cellar, and plied their demon labours
fiercely. While some small parties kindled bonfires underneath the
windows, others broke up the furniture and cast the fragments down
to feed the flames below; where the apertures in the wall (windows no
longer) were large enough, they threw out tables, chests of drawers,
beds, mirrors, pictures, and flung them whole into the fire; while
every fresh addition to the blazing masses was received with shouts,
and howls, and yells, which added new and dismal terrors to the
conflagration. Those who had axes and had spent their fury on the
movables, chopped and tore down the doors and window frames, broke up
the flooring, hewed away the rafters, and buried men who lingered in the
upper rooms, in heaps of ruins. Some searched the drawers, the chests,
the boxes, writing-desks, and closets, for jewels, plate, and money;
while others, less mindful of gain and more mad for destruction, cast
their whole contents into the courtyard without examination, and called
to those below, to heap them on the blaze. Men who had been into the
cellars, and had staved the casks, rushed to and fro stark mad, setting
fire to all they saw--often to the dresses of their own friends--and
kindling the building in so many parts that some had no time for
escape, and were seen, with drooping hands and blackened faces, hanging
senseless on the window-sills to which they had crawled, until they were
sucked and drawn into the burning gulf. The more the fire crackled and
raged, the wilder and more cruel the men grew; as though moving in that
element they became fiends, and changed their earthly nature for the
qualities that give delight in hell.

The burning pile, revealing rooms and passages red hot, through gaps
made in the crumbling walls; the tributary fires that licked the outer
bricks and stones, with their long forked tongues, and ran up to meet
the glowing mass within; the shining of the flames upon the villains who
looked on and fed them; the roaring of the angry blaze, so bright and
high that it seemed in its rapacity to have swallowed up the very smoke;
the living flakes the wind bore rapidly away and hurried on with, like
a storm of fiery snow; the noiseless breaking of great beams of wood,
which fell like feathers on the heap of ashes, and crumbled in the very
act to sparks a