 goes, and it'll bile in no time!"

"Why, father!" said Meg, "you're crazy to-night, I think. Poor little
feet, how cold they are!"

"Oh, they're warmer now!" exclaimed the child. "They're quite warm now!"

"No, no, no," said Meg. "We haven't rubbed 'em half enough. And when
they're done, we'll brush out the damp hair; and we'll bring some color
to the poor pale face with fresh water; and then we'll be so gay and
brisk and happy!"

The child sobbing, clasped her round the neck, saying, "O Meg, O dear
Meg!"

"Good gracious me!" said Meg, presently, "father's crazy! He's put the
dear child's bonnet on the kettle, and hung the lid behind the door!"

Trotty hastily repaired this mistake, and went off to find some tea and
a rasher of bacon he fancied "he had seen lying somewhere on the
stairs." He soon came back and made the tea, and before long they were
all enjoying the meal.

After tea Meg took Lilian to bed, and Toby showed Will Fern where he was
to sleep. Then he went to sit by the fire and read his paper, and fell
asleep, to have a wonderful dream so terrible and sad, that it was a
great relief when he woke to find Meg sitting near him, putting some
ribbons on her simple gown for her wedding, and looking so happy and
young and blooming, that he jumped up to clasp her in his arms.

But somebody came rushing in between them, crying,--"No! Not even you.
The first kiss of Meg in the New Year is mine. Meg, my precious prize,
a happy year! A life of happy years, my darling wife!"

Then in came Lilian and Will Fern, and a band of music with a flock of
neighbors burst into the room, shouting, "A Happy New Year, Meg." "A
happy wedding!" "Many of 'em," and the Drum stepped forward and said--

"Trotty Veck, it's got about that your daughter is to be married
to-morrow. And there ain't a soul that knows you both that don't wish
you both all the happiness the New Year can bring. And here we are, to
play it in and dance it in accordingly." Then Mrs. Chickenstalker came
in (a good-humored, comely woman, who, to the delight of all, turned out
to be the friend of Lilian's mother for whom Will Fern had come to
look), to wish Meg joy, and then the music struck up, and Trotty, making
Meg and Richard second couple, led off Mrs. Chickenstalker down the
dance, and danced it in a step unknown before or since, founded on his
own peculiar trot.




TINY TIM.


There was once a man who did not like Christmas. His name was Scrooge,
and he was a hard sour-tempered man of business, intent only on saving
and making money, and caring nothing for anyone. He paid the poor,
hard-working clerk in his office as little as he could possibly get the
work done for, and lived on as little as possible himself, alone, in two
dismal rooms. He was never merry or comfortable, or happy, and he hated
other people to be so, and that was the reason why he hated Christmas,
because people will be happy at Christmas, you know, if they possibly
can.

Well, it was Christmas eve, a very cold and foggy one, and Mr. Scrooge,
having given his poor clerk unwilling permission to spend Christmas day
at home, locked up his office and went home himself in a very bad
temper. After having taken some gruel as he sat over a miserable fire in
his dismal room, he got into bed, and had some wonderful and
disagreeable dreams, to which we will leave him, whilst we see how Tiny
Tim, the son of his poor clerk, spent Christmas day.

The name of this clerk was Bob Cratchet. He had a wife and five other
children beside Tim, who was a weak and delicate little cripple, gentle
and patient and loving, with a sweet face of his own, which no one could
help looking at.

It was Mr. Cratchet's delight to carry his little boy out on his
shoulder to see the shops and the people; and to-day he had taken him to
church for the first time.

"Whatever has got your precious father, and your brother Tiny Tim!"
exclaimed Mrs. Cratchet, "here's dinner all ready to be dished up. I've
never known him so late on Christmas day before."

"Here he is, mother!" cried Belinda, and "here he is!" cried the other
children, as Mr. Cratchet came in, his long comforter hanging three feet
from under his threadbare coat; for cold as it was the poor clerk had no
top-coat. Tiny Tim was perched on his father's shoulder.

"And how did Tim behave?" asked Mrs. Cratchet.

"As good as gold and better," replied his father. "He told me, coming
home, that he hoped the people in church, who saw he was a cripple,
would be pleased to remember on Christmas day who it was who made the
lame to walk."

"Bless his sweet heart!" said the mother in a trembling voice.

Dinner was waiting to be dished up. Mrs. Cratchet proudly placed a goose
upon the table. Belinda brought in the apple sauce, and Peter the mashed
potatoes; the other children set chairs, Tim's as usual close to his
father's; and Tim was so excited that he rapped the table with his
knife, and carried "Hurrah." After the goose came the pudding, all
ablaze, with its sprig of holly in the middle, and was eaten to the last
morsel; then apples and oranges were set upon the table, and a shovelful
of c