o tears.

'Oh mother, mother, how mournful he will be when he scratches at the
door, and finds it always shut!'

There was such a sense of home in the thought, that though her own eyes
overflowed she would not have obliterated the recollection of it, either
from her own mind or from his, for the wealth of the whole wide world.



Chapter 47


In the exhaustless catalogue of Heaven's mercies to mankind, the power
we have of finding some germs of comfort in the hardest trials must ever
occupy the foremost place; not only because it supports and upholds
us when we most require to be sustained, but because in this source of
consolation there is something, we have reason to believe, of the divine
spirit; something of that goodness which detects amidst our own evil
doings, a redeeming quality; something which, even in our fallen nature,
we possess in common with the angels; which had its being in the old
time when they trod the earth, and lingers on it yet, in pity.

How often, on their journey, did the widow remember with a grateful
heart, that out of his deprivation Barnaby's cheerfulness and affection
sprung! How often did she call to mind that but for that, he might have
been sullen, morose, unkind, far removed from her--vicious, perhaps, and
cruel! How often had she cause for comfort, in his strength, and hope,
and in his simple nature! Those feeble powers of mind which rendered him
so soon forgetful of the past, save in brief gleams and flashes,--even
they were a comfort now. The world to him was full of happiness; in
every tree, and plant, and flower, in every bird, and beast, and tiny
insect whom a breath of summer wind laid low upon the ground, he had
delight. His delight was hers; and where many a wise son would have
made her sorrowful, this poor light-hearted idiot filled her breast with
thankfulness and love.

Their stock of money was low, but from the hoard she had told into the
blind man's hand, the widow had withheld one guinea. This, with the few
pence she possessed besides, was to two persons of their frugal habits,
a goodly sum in bank. Moreover they had Grip in company; and when they
must otherwise have changed the guinea, it was but to make him exhibit
outside an alehouse door, or in a village street, or in the grounds or
gardens of a mansion of the better sort, and scores who would have given
nothing in charity, were ready to bargain for more amusement from the
talking bird.

One day--for they moved slowly, and although they had many rides in
carts and waggons, were on the road a week--Barnaby, with Grip upon his
shoulder and his mother following, begged permission at a trim lodge to
go up to the great house, at the other end of the avenue, and show his
raven. The man within was inclined to give them admittance, and was
indeed about to do so, when a stout gentleman with a long whip in his
hand, and a flushed face which seemed to indicate that he had had his
morning's draught, rode up to the gate, and called in a loud voice and
with more oaths than the occasion seemed to warrant to have it opened
directly.

'Who hast thou got here?' said the gentleman angrily, as the man threw
the gate wide open, and pulled off his hat, 'who are these? Eh? art a
beggar, woman?'

The widow answered with a curtsey, that they were poor travellers.

'Vagrants,' said the gentleman, 'vagrants and vagabonds. Thee wish to be
made acquainted with the cage, dost thee--the cage, the stocks, and the
whipping-post? Where dost come from?'

She told him in a timid manner,--for he was very loud, hoarse, and
red-faced,--and besought him not to be angry, for they meant no harm,
and would go upon their way that moment.

'Don't be too sure of that,' replied the gentleman, 'we don't allow
vagrants to roam about this place. I know what thou want'st---stray
linen drying on hedges, and stray poultry, eh? What hast got in that
basket, lazy hound?'

'Grip, Grip, Grip--Grip the clever, Grip the wicked, Grip the
knowing--Grip, Grip, Grip,' cried the raven, whom Barnaby had shut up
on the approach of this stern personage. 'I'm a devil I'm a devil I'm a
devil, Never say die Hurrah Bow wow wow, Polly put the kettle on we'll
all have tea.'

'Take the vermin out, scoundrel,' said the gentleman, 'and let me see
him.'

Barnaby, thus condescendingly addressed, produced his bird, but not
without much fear and trembling, and set him down upon the ground; which
he had no sooner done than Grip drew fifty corks at least, and then
began to dance; at the same time eyeing the gentleman with surprising
insolence of manner, and screwing his head so much on one side that he
appeared desirous of screwing it off upon the spot.

The cork-drawing seemed to make a greater impression on the gentleman's
mind, than the raven's power of speech, and was indeed particularly
adapted to his habits and capacity. He desired to have that done again,
but despite his being very peremptory, and notwithstanding that Barnaby
coaxed to the utmost, Grip turned a deaf ear to the request, and
preserved a dead silence.

'Bring him along,' said the gentleman, pointing to the house. But Grip,
who had 