ady for working off;
such being the case, he considered it their duty, as a civilised and
enlightened crowd, to work him off. It was not often, he observed, that
they had it in their power to accommodate themselves to the wishes of
those from whom they had the misfortune to differ. Having now found an
individual who expressed a desire which they could reasonably indulge
(and for himself he was free to confess that in his opinion that desire
did honour to his feelings), he hoped they would decide to accede to
his proposition before going any further. It was an experiment which,
skilfully and dexterously performed, would be over in five minutes, with
great comfort and satisfaction to all parties; and though it did not
become him (Mr Dennis) to speak well of himself he trusted he might
be allowed to say that he had practical knowledge of the subject, and,
being naturally of an obliging and friendly disposition, would work the
gentleman off with a deal of pleasure.

These remarks, which were addressed in the midst of a frightful din and
turmoil to those immediately about him, were received with great favour;
not so much, perhaps, because of the hangman's eloquence, as on account
of the locksmith's obstinacy. Gabriel was in imminent peril, and he knew
it; but he preserved a steady silence; and would have done so, if they
had been debating whether they should roast him at a slow fire.

As the hangman spoke, there was some stir and confusion on the ladder;
and directly he was silent--so immediately upon his holding his peace,
that the crowd below had no time to learn what he had been saying, or to
shout in response--some one at the window cried:

'He has a grey head. He is an old man: Don't hurt him!'

The locksmith turned, with a start, towards the place from which the
words had come, and looked hurriedly at the people who were hanging on
the ladder and clinging to each other.

'Pay no respect to my grey hair, young man,' he said, answering the
voice and not any one he saw. 'I don't ask it. My heart is green enough
to scorn and despise every man among you, band of robbers that you are!'

This incautious speech by no means tended to appease the ferocity of the
crowd. They cried again to have him brought out; and it would have gone
hard with the honest locksmith, but that Hugh reminded them, in answer,
that they wanted his services, and must have them.

'So, tell him what we want,' he said to Simon Tappertit, 'and quickly.
And open your ears, master, if you would ever use them after to-night.'

Gabriel folded his arms, which were now at liberty, and eyed his old
'prentice in silence.

'Lookye, Varden,' said Sim, 'we're bound for Newgate.'

'I know you are,' returned the locksmith. 'You never said a truer word
than that.'

'To burn it down, I mean,' said Simon, 'and force the gates, and set the
prisoners at liberty. You helped to make the lock of the great door.'

'I did,' said the locksmith. 'You owe me no thanks for that--as you'll
find before long.'

'Maybe,' returned his journeyman, 'but you must show us how to force
it.'

'Must I!'

'Yes; for you know, and I don't. You must come along with us, and pick
it with your own hands.'

'When I do,' said the locksmith quietly, 'my hands shall drop off at the
wrists, and you shall wear them, Simon Tappertit, on your shoulders for
epaulettes.'

'We'll see that,' cried Hugh, interposing, as the indignation of the
crowd again burst forth. 'You fill a basket with the tools he'll want,
while I bring him downstairs. Open the doors below, some of you. And
light the great captain, others! Is there no business afoot, my lads,
that you can do nothing but stand and grumble?'

They looked at one another, and quickly dispersing, swarmed over the
house, plundering and breaking, according to their custom, and carrying
off such articles of value as happened to please their fancy. They had
no great length of time for these proceedings, for the basket of tools
was soon prepared and slung over a man's shoulders. The preparations
being now completed, and everything ready for the attack, those who
were pillaging and destroying in the other rooms were called down to the
workshop. They were about to issue forth, when the man who had been last
upstairs, stepped forward, and asked if the young woman in the garret
(who was making a terrible noise, he said, and kept on screaming without
the least cessation) was to be released?

For his own part, Simon Tappertit would certainly have replied in the
negative, but the mass of his companions, mindful of the good service
she had done in the matter of the gun, being of a different opinion, he
had nothing for it but to answer, Yes. The man, accordingly, went back
again to the rescue, and presently returned with Miss Miggs, limp and
doubled up, and very damp from much weeping.

As the young lady had given no tokens of consciousness on their way
downstairs, the bearer reported her either dead or dying; and being at
some loss what to do with her, was looking round for a convenient bench
or heap of ashes on which to place her senseless form, when she suddenly
came upon her fee