they have not
often anything to say though, either to us or to each other, but sit
there idly staring at the coach and horses.  The landlord of the inn is
usually among them, and seems, of all the party, to be the least
connected with the business of the house.  Indeed he is with reference to
the tavern, what the driver is in relation to the coach and passengers:
whatever happens in his sphere of action, he is quite indifferent, and
perfectly easy in his mind.

The frequent change of coachmen works no change or variety in the
coachman’s character.  He is always dirty, sullen, and taciturn.  If he
be capable of smartness of any kind, moral or physical, he has a faculty
of concealing it which is truly marvellous.  He never speaks to you as
you sit beside him on the box, and if you speak to him, he answers (if at
all) in monosyllables.  He points out nothing on the road, and seldom
looks at anything: being, to all appearance, thoroughly weary of it and
of existence generally.  As to doing the honours of his coach, his
business, as I have said, is with the horses.  The coach follows because
it is attached to them and goes on wheels: not because you are in it.
Sometimes, towards the end of a long stage, he suddenly breaks out into a
discordant fragment of an election song, but his face never sings along
with him: it is only his voice, and not often that.

He always chews and always spits, and never encumbers himself with a
pocket-handkerchief.  The consequences to the box passenger, especially
when the wind blows towards him, are not agreeable.

Whenever the coach stops, and you can hear the voices of the inside
passengers; or whenever any bystander addresses them, or any one among
them; or they address each other; you will hear one phrase repeated over
and over and over again to the most extraordinary extent.  It is an
ordinary and unpromising phrase enough, being neither more nor less than
‘Yes, sir;’ but it is adapted to every variety of circumstance, and fills
up every pause in the conversation.  Thus:—

The time is one o’clock at noon.  The scene, a place where we are to stay
and dine, on this journey.  The coach drives up to the door of an inn.
The day is warm, and there are several idlers lingering about the tavern,
and waiting for the public dinner.  Among them, is a stout gentleman in a
brown hat, swinging himself to and fro in a rocking-chair on the
pavement.

As the coach stops, a gentleman in a straw hat looks out of the window:

STRAW HAT.  (To the stout gentleman in the rocking-chair.)  I reckon
that’s Judge Jefferson, an’t it?

BROWN HAT.  (Still swinging; speaking very slowly; and without any
emotion whatever.)  Yes, sir.

STRAW HAT.  Warm weather, Judge.

BROWN HAT.  Yes, sir.

STRAW HAT.  There was a snap of cold, last week.

BROWN HAT.  Yes, sir.

STRAW HAT.  Yes, sir.

A pause.  They look at each other, very seriously.

STRAW HAT.  I calculate you’ll have got through that case of the
corporation, Judge, by this time, now?

BROWN HAT.  Yes, sir.

STRAW HAT.  How did the verdict go, sir?

BROWN HAT.  For the defendant, sir.

STRAW HAT.  (Interrogatively.)  Yes, sir?

BROWN HAT. (Affirmatively.)  Yes, sir.

BOTH.  (Musingly, as each gazes down the street.)  Yes, sir.

Another pause.  They look at each other again, still more seriously than
before.

BROWN HAT.  This coach is rather behind its time to-day, I guess.

STRAW HAT.  (Doubtingly.)  Yes, sir.

BROWN HAT.  (Looking at his watch.)  Yes, sir; nigh upon two hours.

STRAW HAT.  (Raising his eyebrows in very great surprise.)  Yes, sir!

BROWN HAT.  (Decisively, as he puts up his watch.)  Yes, sir.

ALL THE OTHER INSIDE PASSENGERS.  (Among themselves.)  Yes, sir.

COACHMAN.  (In a very surly tone.)  No it an’t.

STRAW HAT.  (To the coachman.)  Well, I don’t know, sir.  We were a
pretty tall time coming that last fifteen mile.  That’s a fact.

The coachman making no reply, and plainly declining to enter into any
controversy on a subject so far removed from his sympathies and feelings,
another passenger says, ‘Yes, sir;’ and the gentleman in the straw hat in
acknowledgment of his courtesy, says ‘Yes, sir,’ to him, in return.  The
straw hat then inquires of the brown hat, whether that coach in which he
(the straw hat) then sits, is not a new one?  To which the brown hat
again makes answer, ‘Yes, sir.’

STRAW HAT.  I thought so.  Pretty loud smell of varnish, sir?

BROWN HAT.  Yes, sir.

ALL THE OTHER INSIDE PASSENGERS.  Yes, sir.

BROWN HAT.  (To the company in general.)  Yes, sir.

The conversational powers of the company having been by this time pretty
heavily taxed, the straw hat opens the door and gets out; and all the
rest alight also.  We dine soon afterwards with the boarders in the
house, and have nothing to drink but tea and coffee.  As they are both
very bad and the water is worse, I ask for brandy; but it is a Temperance
Hotel, and spirits are not to be had for love or money.  This
preposterous forcing of unpleasant drinks down the reluctant throats of
travellers is not at all uncommon in America, but I never discovered that
the scruples of such wincing 