ll,' said Dennis. 'She's one of them fine,
black-eyed, proud gals, as I wouldn't trust at such times with a knife
too near 'em. I've seen some of that sort, afore now. I recollect one
that was worked off, many year ago--and there was a gentleman in that
case too--that says to me, with her lip a trembling, but her hand as
steady as ever I see one: "Dennis, I'm near my end, but if I had a
dagger in these fingers, and he was within my reach, I'd strike him dead
afore me;"--ah, she did--and she'd have done it too!'

Strike who dead?' demanded Hugh.

'How should I know, brother?' answered Dennis. 'SHE never said; not
she.'

Hugh looked, for a moment, as though he would have made some further
inquiry into this incoherent recollection; but Simon Tappertit, who had
been meditating deeply, gave his thoughts a new direction.

'Hugh!' said Sim. 'You have done well to-day. You shall be rewarded.
So have you, Dennis.--There's no young woman YOU want to carry off, is
there?'

'N--no,' returned that gentleman, stroking his grizzly beard, which was
some two inches long. 'None in partickler, I think.'

'Very good,' said Sim; 'then we'll find some other way of making it up
to you. As to you, old boy'--he turned to Hugh--'you shall have Miggs
(her that I promised you, you know) within three days. Mind. I pass my
word for it.'

Hugh thanked him heartily; and as he did so, his laughing fit returned
with such violence that he was obliged to hold his side with one hand,
and to lean with the other on the shoulder of his small captain, without
whose support he would certainly have rolled upon the ground.



Chapter 60


The three worthies turned their faces towards The Boot, with the
intention of passing the night in that place of rendezvous, and of
seeking the repose they so much needed in the shelter of their old
den; for now that the mischief and destruction they had purposed were
achieved, and their prisoners were safely bestowed for the night, they
began to be conscious of exhaustion, and to feel the wasting effects of
the madness which had led to such deplorable results.

Notwithstanding the lassitude and fatigue which oppressed him now, in
common with his two companions, and indeed with all who had taken an
active share in that night's work, Hugh's boisterous merriment broke out
afresh whenever he looked at Simon Tappertit, and vented itself--much to
that gentleman's indignation--in such shouts of laughter as bade fair to
bring the watch upon them, and involve them in a skirmish, to which in
their present worn-out condition they might prove by no means equal.
Even Mr Dennis, who was not at all particular on the score of gravity
or dignity, and who had a great relish for his young friend's eccentric
humours, took occasion to remonstrate with him on this imprudent
behaviour, which he held to be a species of suicide, tantamount to a
man's working himself off without being overtaken by the law, than which
he could imagine nothing more ridiculous or impertinent.

Not abating one jot of his noisy mirth for these remonstrances, Hugh
reeled along between them, having an arm of each, until they hove in
sight of The Boot, and were within a field or two of that convenient
tavern. He happened by great good luck to have roared and shouted
himself into silence by this time. They were proceeding onward without
noise, when a scout who had been creeping about the ditches all night,
to warn any stragglers from encroaching further on what was now such
dangerous ground, peeped cautiously from his hiding-place, and called to
them to stop.

'Stop! and why?' said Hugh.

Because (the scout replied) the house was filled with constables and
soldiers; having been surprised that afternoon. The inmates had fled
or been taken into custody, he could not say which. He had prevented a
great many people from approaching nearer, and he believed they had
gone to the markets and such places to pass the night. He had seen the
distant fires, but they were all out now. He had heard the people who
passed and repassed, speaking of them too, and could report that the
prevailing opinion was one of apprehension and dismay. He had not heard
a word of Barnaby--didn't even know his name--but it had been said in
his hearing that some man had been taken and carried off to Newgate.
Whether this was true or false, he could not affirm.

The three took counsel together, on hearing this, and debated what it
might be best to do. Hugh, deeming it possible that Barnaby was in the
hands of the soldiers, and at that moment under detention at The Boot,
was for advancing stealthily, and firing the house; but his companions,
who objected to such rash measures unless they had a crowd at their
backs, represented that if Barnaby were taken he had assuredly been
removed to a stronger prison; they would never have dreamed of keeping
him all night in a place so weak and open to attack. Yielding to this
reasoning, and to their persuasions, Hugh consented to turn back and
to repair to Fleet Market; for which place, it seemed, a few of their
boldest associates had shaped their course, on receiving the same
intell