 at Barnaby,
and whispering in his secretary's ear, 'of being deranged? And even
if he had, we must not construe any trifling peculiarity into madness.
Which of us'--and here he turned red again--'would be safe, if that were
made the law!'

'Not one,' replied the secretary; 'in that case, the greater the zeal,
the truth, and talent; the more direct the call from above; the clearer
would be the madness. With regard to this young man, my lord,' he added,
with a lip that slightly curled as he looked at Barnaby, who stood
twirling his hat, and stealthily beckoning them to come away, 'he is as
sensible and self-possessed as any one I ever saw.'

'And you desire to make one of this great body?' said Lord George,
addressing him; 'and intended to make one, did you?'

'Yes--yes,' said Barnaby, with sparkling eyes. 'To be sure I did! I told
her so myself.'

'I see,' replied Lord George, with a reproachful glance at the unhappy
mother. 'I thought so. Follow me and this gentleman, and you shall have
your wish.'

Barnaby kissed his mother tenderly on the cheek, and bidding her be
of good cheer, for their fortunes were both made now, did as he was
desired. She, poor woman, followed too--with how much fear and grief it
would be hard to tell.

They passed quickly through the Bridge Road, where the shops were all
shut up (for the passage of the great crowd and the expectation of
their return had alarmed the tradesmen for their goods and windows),
and where, in the upper stories, all the inhabitants were congregated,
looking down into the street below, with faces variously expressive
of alarm, of interest, expectancy, and indignation. Some of these
applauded, and some hissed; but regardless of these interruptions--for
the noise of a vast congregation of people at a little distance, sounded
in his ears like the roaring of the sea--Lord George Gordon quickened
his pace, and presently arrived before St George's Fields.

They were really fields at that time, and of considerable extent. Here
an immense multitude was collected, bearing flags of various kinds
and sizes, but all of the same colour--blue, like the cockades--some
sections marching to and fro in military array, and others drawn up in
circles, squares, and lines. A large portion, both of the bodies
which paraded the ground, and of those which remained stationary, were
occupied in singing hymns or psalms. With whomsoever this originated, it
was well done; for the sound of so many thousand voices in the air must
have stirred the heart of any man within him, and could not fail to have
a wonderful effect upon enthusiasts, however mistaken.

Scouts had been posted in advance of the great body, to give notice of
their leader's coming. These falling back, the word was quickly passed
through the whole host, and for a short interval there ensued a profound
and deathlike silence, during which the mass was so still and
quiet, that the fluttering of a banner caught the eye, and became a
circumstance of note. Then they burst into a tremendous shout, into
another, and another; and the air seemed rent and shaken, as if by the
discharge of cannon.

'Gashford!' cried Lord George, pressing his secretary's arm tight within
his own, and speaking with as much emotion in his voice, as in his
altered face, 'I am called indeed, now. I feel and know it. I am the
leader of a host. If they summoned me at this moment with one voice to
lead them on to death, I'd do it--Yes, and fall first myself!'

'It is a proud sight,' said the secretary. 'It is a noble day for
England, and for the great cause throughout the world. Such homage, my
lord, as I, an humble but devoted man, can render--'

'What are you doing?' cried his master, catching him by both hands;
for he had made a show of kneeling at his feet. 'Do not unfit me, dear
Gashford, for the solemn duty of this glorious day--' the tears stood in
the eyes of the poor gentleman as he said the words.--'Let us go
among them; we have to find a place in some division for this new
recruit--give me your hand.'

Gashford slid his cold insidious palm into his master's grasp, and so,
hand in hand, and followed still by Barnaby and by his mother too, they
mingled with the concourse.

They had by this time taken to their singing again, and as their leader
passed between their ranks, they raised their voices to their utmost.
Many of those who were banded together to support the religion of their
country, even unto death, had never heard a hymn or psalm in all their
lives. But these fellows having for the most part strong lungs, and
being naturally fond of singing, chanted any ribaldry or nonsense that
occurred to them, feeling pretty certain that it would not be detected
in the general chorus, and not caring much if it were. Many of these
voluntaries were sung under the very nose of Lord George Gordon, who,
quite unconscious of their burden, passed on with his usual stiff and
solemn deportment, very much edified and delighted by the pious conduct
of his followers.

So they went on and on, up this line, down that, round the exterior of
this circle, and on every side of that hollow s