his left ear.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro man, named Ivory.  Has a small piece cut out of
    the top of each ear.’

While upon the subject of ears, I may observe that a distinguished
abolitionist in New York once received a negro’s ear, which had been cut
off close to the head, in a general post letter.  It was forwarded by the
free and independent gentleman who had caused it to be amputated, with a
polite request that he would place the specimen in his ‘collection.’

I could enlarge this catalogue with broken arms, and broken legs, and
gashed flesh, and missing teeth, and lacerated backs, and bites of dogs,
and brands of red-hot irons innumerable: but as my readers will be
sufficiently sickened and repelled already, I will turn to another branch
of the subject.

These advertisements, of which a similar collection might be made for
every year, and month, and week, and day; and which are coolly read in
families as things of course, and as a part of the current news and
small-talk; will serve to show how very much the slaves profit by public
opinion, and how tender it is in their behalf.  But it may be worth while
to inquire how the slave-owners, and the class of society to which great
numbers of them belong, defer to public opinion in their conduct, not to
their slaves but to each other; how they are accustomed to restrain their
passions; what their bearing is among themselves; whether they are fierce
or gentle; whether their social customs be brutal, sanguinary, and
violent, or bear the impress of civilisation and refinement.

That we may have no partial evidence from abolitionists in this inquiry,
either, I will once more turn to their own newspapers, and I will confine
myself, this time, to a selection from paragraphs which appeared from day
to day, during my visit to America, and which refer to occurrences
happening while I was there.  The italics in these extracts, as in the
foregoing, are my own.

These cases did not ALL occur, it will be seen, in territory actually
belonging to legalised Slave States, though most, and those the very
worst among them did, as their counterparts constantly do; but the
position of the scenes of action in reference to places immediately at
hand, where slavery is the law; and the strong resemblance between that
class of outrages and the rest; lead to the just presumption that the
character of the parties concerned was formed in slave districts, and
brutalised by slave customs.

                             ‘_Horrible Tragedy_.

    ‘By a slip from _The Southport Telegraph_, Wisconsin, we learn that
    the Hon. Charles C. P. Arndt, Member of the Council for Brown county,
    was shot dead _on the floor of the Council chamber_, by James R.
    Vinyard, Member from Grant county.  _The affair_ grew out of a
    nomination for Sheriff of Grant county.  Mr. E. S. Baker was
    nominated and supported by Mr. Arndt.  This nomination was opposed by
    Vinyard, who wanted the appointment to vest in his own brother.  In
    the course of debate, the deceased made some statements which Vinyard
    pronounced false, and made use of violent and insulting language,
    dealing largely in personalities, to which Mr. A. made no reply.
    After the adjournment, Mr. A. stepped up to Vinyard, and requested
    him to retract, which he refused to do, repeating the offensive
    words.  Mr. Arndt then made a blow at Vinyard, who stepped back a
    pace, drew a pistol, and shot him dead.

    ‘The issue appears to have been provoked on the part of Vinyard, who
    was determined at all hazards to defeat the appointment of Baker, and
    who, himself defeated, turned his ire and revenge upon the
    unfortunate Arndt.’

                          ‘_The Wisconsin Tragedy_.

    Public indignation runs high in the territory of Wisconsin, in
    relation to the murder of C. C. P. Arndt, in the Legislative Hall of
    the Territory.  Meetings have been held in different counties of
    Wisconsin, denouncing _the practice of secretly bearing arms in the
    Legislative chambers of the country_.  We have seen the account of
    the expulsion of James R. Vinyard, the perpetrator of the bloody
    deed, and are amazed to hear, that, after this expulsion by those who
    saw Vinyard kill Mr. Arndt in the presence of his aged father, who
    was on a visit to see his son, little dreaming that he was to witness
    his murder, _Judge Dunn has discharged Vinyard on bail_.  The Miners’
    Free Press speaks _in terms of merited rebuke_ at the outrage upon
    the feelings of the people of Wisconsin.  Vinyard was within arm’s
    length of Mr. Arndt, when he took such deadly aim at him, that he
    never spoke.  Vinyard might at pleasure, being so near, have only
    wounded him, but he chose to kill him.’

                                  ‘_Murder_.

    By a letter in a St. Louis paper of the ‘4th, we notice a terrible
    outrage at Burlington, Iowa.  A Mr. Bridgman having had a difficulty
    with a citizen of the place, Mr. Ross; a brother-in-law of the latter
    provided himself with one of Colt’s revolving pistols, met 