 left
    me.’

    ‘Committed to jail, a man who calls his name John.  He has a clog of
    iron on his right foot which will weigh four or five pounds.’

    ‘Detained at the police jail, the negro wench, Myra.  Has several
    marks of LASHING, and has irons on her feet.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro woman and two children.  A few days before she
    went off, I burnt her with a hot iron, on the left side of her face.
    I tried to make the letter M.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro man named Henry; his left eye out, some scars from
    a dirk on and under his left arm, and much scarred with the whip.’

    ‘One hundred dollars reward, for a negro fellow, Pompey, 40 years
    old.  He is branded on the left jaw.’

    ‘Committed to jail, a negro man.  Has no toes on the left foot.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro woman named Rachel.  Has lost all her toes except
    the large one.’

    ‘Ran away, Sam.  He was shot a short time since through the hand, and
    has several shots in his left arm and side.’

    ‘Ran away, my negro man Dennis.  Said negro has been shot in the left
    arm between the shoulder and elbow, which has paralysed the left
    hand.’

    ‘Ran away, my negro man named Simon.  He has been shot badly, in his
    back and right arm.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro named Arthur.  Has a considerable scar across his
    breast and each arm, made by a knife; loves to talk much of the
    goodness of God.’

    ‘Twenty-five dollars reward for my man Isaac.  He has a scar on his
    forehead, caused by a blow; and one on his back, made by a shot from
    a pistol.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro girl called Mary.  Has a small scar over her eye,
    a good many teeth missing, the letter A is branded on her cheek and
    forehead.’

    ‘Ran away, negro Ben.  Has a scar on his right hand; his thumb and
    forefinger being injured by being shot last fall.  A part of the bone
    came out.  He has also one or two large scars on his back and hips.’

    ‘Detained at the jail, a mulatto, named Tom.  Has a scar on the right
    cheek, and appears to have been burned with powder on the face.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro man named Ned.  Three of his fingers are drawn
    into the palm of his hand by a cut.  Has a scar on the back of his
    neck, nearly half round, done by a knife.’

    ‘Was committed to jail, a negro man.  Says his name is Josiah.  His
    back very much scarred by the whip; and branded on the thigh and hips
    in three or four places, thus (J M).  The rim of his right ear has
    been bit or cut off.’

    ‘Fifty dollars reward, for my fellow Edward.  He has a scar on the
    corner of his mouth, two cuts on and under his arm, and the letter E
    on his arm.’

    ‘Ran away, negro boy Ellie.  Has a scar on one of his arms from the
    bite of a dog.’

    ‘Ran away, from the plantation of James Surgette, the following
    negroes: Randal, has one ear cropped; Bob, has lost one eye; Kentucky
    Tom, has one jaw broken.’

    ‘Ran away, Anthony.  One of his ears cut off, and his left hand cut
    with an axe.’

    ‘Fifty dollars reward for the negro Jim Blake.  Has a piece cut out
    of each ear, and the middle finger of the left hand cut off to the
    second joint.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro woman named Maria.  Has a scar on one side of her
    cheek, by a cut.  Some scars on her back.’

    ‘Ran away, the Mulatto wench Mary.  Has a cut on the left arm, a scar
    on the left shoulder, and two upper teeth missing.’

I should say, perhaps, in explanation of this latter piece of
description, that among the other blessings which public opinion secures
to the negroes, is the common practice of violently punching out their
teeth.  To make them wear iron collars by day and night, and to worry
them with dogs, are practices almost too ordinary to deserve mention.

    ‘Ran away, my man Fountain.  Has holes in his ears, a scar on the
    right side of his forehead, has been shot in the hind part of his
    legs, and is marked on the back with the whip.’

    ‘Two hundred and fifty dollars reward for my negro man Jim.  He is
    much marked with shot in his right thigh.  The shot entered on the
    outside, halfway between the hip and knee joints.’

    ‘Brought to jail, John.  Left ear cropt.’

    ‘Taken up, a negro man.  Is very much scarred about the face and
    body, and has the left ear bit off.’

    ‘Ran away, a black girl, named Mary.  Has a scar on her cheek, and
    the end of one of her toes cut off.’

    ‘Ran away, my Mulatto woman, Judy.  She has had her right arm broke.’

    ‘Ran away, my negro man, Levi.  His left hand has been burnt, and I
    think the end of his forefinger is off.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro man, NAMED WASHINGTON.  Has lost a part of his
    middle finger, and the end of his little finger.’

    ‘Twenty-five dollars reward for my man John.  The tip of his nose is
    bit off.’

    ‘Twenty-five dollars reward for the negro slave, Sally.  Walks _as
    though_ crippled in the back.’

    ‘Ran away, Joe Dennis.  Has a small notch in one of his ears.’

    ‘Ran away, negro boy, Jack.  Has a small crop out of 