ried the lock to satisfy himself that he had shut the door securely,
and, striding up the dark chamber to where the screen inclosed a little
patch of light and warmth, presented himself, abruptly and in silence,
before the smiling guest.

If the two had no greater sympathy in their inward thoughts than in
their outward bearing and appearance, the meeting did not seem likely to
prove a very calm or pleasant one. With no great disparity between them
in point of years, they were, in every other respect, as unlike and
far removed from each other as two men could well be. The one was
soft-spoken, delicately made, precise, and elegant; the other, a burly
square-built man, negligently dressed, rough and abrupt in manner,
stern, and, in his present mood, forbidding both in look and speech. The
one preserved a calm and placid smile; the other, a distrustful frown.
The new-comer, indeed, appeared bent on showing by his every tone and
gesture his determined opposition and hostility to the man he had come
to meet. The guest who received him, on the other hand, seemed to feel
that the contrast between them was all in his favour, and to derive a
quiet exultation from it which put him more at his ease than ever.

'Haredale,' said this gentleman, without the least appearance of
embarrassment or reserve, 'I am very glad to see you.'

'Let us dispense with compliments. They are misplaced between us,'
returned the other, waving his hand, 'and say plainly what we have to
say. You have asked me to meet you. I am here. Why do we stand face to
face again?'

'Still the same frank and sturdy character, I see!'

'Good or bad, sir, I am,' returned the other, leaning his arm upon
the chimney-piece, and turning a haughty look upon the occupant of
the easy-chair, 'the man I used to be. I have lost no old likings or
dislikings; my memory has not failed me by a hair's-breadth. You ask me
to give you a meeting. I say, I am here.'

'Our meeting, Haredale,' said Mr Chester, tapping his snuff-box, and
following with a smile the impatient gesture he had made--perhaps
unconsciously--towards his sword, 'is one of conference and peace, I
hope?'

'I have come here,' returned the other, 'at your desire, holding myself
bound to meet you, when and where you would. I have not come to bandy
pleasant speeches, or hollow professions. You are a smooth man of the
world, sir, and at such play have me at a disadvantage. The very last
man on this earth with whom I would enter the lists to combat with
gentle compliments and masked faces, is Mr Chester, I do assure you. I
am not his match at such weapons, and have reason to believe that few
men are.'

'You do me a great deal of honour Haredale,' returned the other, most
composedly, 'and I thank you. I will be frank with you--'

'I beg your pardon--will be what?'

'Frank--open--perfectly candid.'

'Hab!' cried Mr Haredale, drawing his breath. 'But don't let me
interrupt you.'

'So resolved am I to hold this course,' returned the other, tasting his
wine with great deliberation; 'that I have determined not to quarrel
with you, and not to be betrayed into a warm expression or a hasty
word.'

'There again,' said Mr Haredale, 'you have me at a great advantage. Your
self-command--'

'Is not to be disturbed, when it will serve my purpose, you would
say'--rejoined the other, interrupting him with the same complacency.
'Granted. I allow it. And I have a purpose to serve now. So have you. I
am sure our object is the same. Let us attain it like sensible men, who
have ceased to be boys some time.--Do you drink?'

'With my friends,' returned the other.

'At least,' said Mr Chester, 'you will be seated?'

'I will stand,' returned Mr Haredale impatiently, 'on this dismantled,
beggared hearth, and not pollute it, fallen as it is, with mockeries. Go
on.'

'You are wrong, Haredale,' said the other, crossing his legs, and
smiling as he held his glass up in the bright glow of the fire. 'You are
really very wrong. The world is a lively place enough, in which we must
accommodate ourselves to circumstances, sail with the stream as glibly
as we can, be content to take froth for substance, the surface for the
depth, the counterfeit for the real coin. I wonder no philosopher has
ever established that our globe itself is hollow. It should be, if
Nature is consistent in her works.'

'YOU think it is, perhaps?'

'I should say,' he returned, sipping his wine, 'there could be no doubt
about it. Well; we, in trifling with this jingling toy, have had
the ill-luck to jostle and fall out. We are not what the world calls
friends; but we are as good and true and loving friends for all that, as
nine out of every ten of those on whom it bestows the title. You have a
niece, and I a son--a fine lad, Haredale, but foolish. They fall in
love with each other, and form what this same world calls an attachment;
meaning a something fanciful and false like the rest, which, if it took
its own free time, would break like any other bubble. But it may not
have its own free time--will not, if they are left alone--and the
question is, shall we two, because society calls us enemies, 