 interview with one, in whom the whole management, conduct, and
prosperity of her family are centred, I perceive.'

With that he took Mrs Varden's hand again, and having pressed it to his
lips with the highflown gallantry of the day--a little burlesqued
to render it the more striking in the good lady's unaccustomed
eyes--proceeded in the same strain of mingled sophistry, cajolery,
and flattery, to entreat that her utmost influence might be exerted to
restrain her husband and daughter from any further promotion of Edward's
suit to Miss Haredale, and from aiding or abetting either party in any
way. Mrs Varden was but a woman, and had her share of vanity, obstinacy,
and love of power. She entered into a secret treaty of alliance,
offensive and defensive, with her insinuating visitor; and really did
believe, as many others would have done who saw and heard him, that in
so doing she furthered the ends of truth, justice, and morality, in a
very uncommon degree.

Overjoyed by the success of his negotiation, and mightily amused within
himself, Mr Chester conducted her downstairs in the same state as
before; and having repeated the previous ceremony of salutation, which
also as before comprehended Dolly, took his leave; first completing the
conquest of Miss Miggs's heart, by inquiring if 'this young lady' would
light him to the door.

'Oh, mim,' said Miggs, returning with the candle. 'Oh gracious me, mim,
there's a gentleman! Was there ever such an angel to talk as he is--and
such a sweet-looking man! So upright and noble, that he seems to despise
the very ground he walks on; and yet so mild and condescending, that
he seems to say "but I will take notice on it too." And to think of
his taking you for Miss Dolly, and Miss Dolly for your sister--Oh, my
goodness me, if I was master wouldn't I be jealous of him!'

Mrs Varden reproved her handmaid for this vain-speaking; but very gently
and mildly--quite smilingly indeed--remarking that she was a foolish,
giddy, light-headed girl, whose spirits carried her beyond all bounds,
and who didn't mean half she said, or she would be quite angry with her.

'For my part,' said Dolly, in a thoughtful manner, 'I half believe Mr
Chester is something like Miggs in that respect. For all his politeness
and pleasant speaking, I am pretty sure he was making game of us, more
than once.'

'If you venture to say such a thing again, and to speak ill of people
behind their backs in my presence, miss,' said Mrs Varden, 'I shall
insist upon your taking a candle and going to bed directly. How dare
you, Dolly? I'm astonished at you. The rudeness of your whole behaviour
this evening has been disgraceful. Did anybody ever hear,' cried the
enraged matron, bursting into tears, 'of a daughter telling her own
mother she has been made game of!'

What a very uncertain temper Mrs Varden's was!



Chapter 28


Repairing to a noted coffee-house in Covent Garden when he left the
locksmith's, Mr Chester sat long over a late dinner, entertaining
himself exceedingly with the whimsical recollection of his recent
proceedings, and congratulating himself very much on his great
cleverness. Influenced by these thoughts, his face wore an expression
so benign and tranquil, that the waiter in immediate attendance upon him
felt he could almost have died in his defence, and settled in his own
mind (until the receipt of the bill, and a very small fee for very great
trouble disabused it of the idea) that such an apostolic customer was
worth half-a-dozen of the ordinary run of visitors, at least.

A visit to the gaming-table--not as a heated, anxious venturer, but
one whom it was quite a treat to see staking his two or three pieces in
deference to the follies of society, and smiling with equal benevolence
on winners and losers--made it late before he reached home. It was his
custom to bid his servant go to bed at his own time unless he had orders
to the contrary, and to leave a candle on the common stair. There was a
lamp on the landing by which he could always light it when he came home
late, and having a key of the door about him he could enter and go to
bed at his pleasure.

He opened the glass of the dull lamp, whose wick, burnt up and swollen
like a drunkard's nose, came flying off in little carbuncles at the
candle's touch, and scattering hot sparks about, rendered it matter
of some difficulty to kindle the lazy taper; when a noise, as of a man
snoring deeply some steps higher up, caused him to pause and listen.
It was the heavy breathing of a sleeper, close at hand. Some fellow
had lain down on the open staircase, and was slumbering soundly.
Having lighted the candle at length and opened his own door, he softly
ascended, holding the taper high above his head, and peering cautiously
about; curious to see what kind of man had chosen so comfortless a
shelter for his lodging.

With his head upon the landing and his great limbs flung over
half-a-dozen stairs, as carelessly as though he were a dead man
whom drunken bearers had thrown down by chance, there lay Hugh, face
uppermost, his long hair drooping like some wild weed upon his wooden
pil