er own behalf, and begged her to teach her.

"I am afraid you are so weak, you see," the milliner objected.

"I don't think I am weak, ma'am."

"And you are so very, very little, you see," the milliner still
objected.

  [Illustration: THE BLIND TOY MAKER.]

  [Illustration: LITTLE DORRIT AND MAGGIE.
  "SHE HAS NEVER GROWN OLDER SINCE."]

"Yes, I am afraid I am very little indeed," returned the child, and
began to sob, so that the milliner was touched, and took her in hand and
made her a clever workwoman.

But the father could not bear the idea that his children should work for
their living, so they had to keep it all secret. Fanny became a dancer,
and lived with a poor old uncle, who played the clarionet at the small
theatre where Fanny was engaged. Amy, or little Dorrit as she was
generally called, her father's name being Dorrit, earned small sums by
going out to do needlework. She got Edward into a great many situations,
but he was an idle, careless fellow, and always came back to be a burden
and care to his poor little sister. At last she saved up enough to send
him out to Canada.

"God bless you, dear Tip" (his name had been shortened to Tip), "don't
be too proud to come and see us when you have made your fortune," she
said.

But Tip only went as far as Liverpool, and appeared once more before his
poor little second mother, in rags, and with no shoes.

In the end, after another trial, Tip returned telling Amy, that this
time he was "one of the regulars."

"Oh! Don't say you are a prisoner, Tip. Don't, don't!"

But he was--and Amy nearly broke her heart. So with all these cares and
worries struggling bravely on, little Dorrit passed the first twenty-two
years of her life. Then the son of a lady, Mrs. Clennem, to whose house
Amy went to do needlework, was interested in the pale, patient little
creature, and learning her history resolved to do his best to try and
get her father released, and to help them all.

One day when he was walking home with little Dorrit a voice was heard
calling, "Little Mother, Little Mother," and a strange figure came
bouncing up to them and fell down, scattering her basketful of potatoes
on the ground. "Oh Maggie," said Little Dorrit, "what a clumsy child you
are!"

She was about eight and twenty, with large bones, large features, large
hands and feet, large eyes and no hair. Little Dorrit told Mr. Clennem
that Maggie was the grand-daughter of her old nurse, and that her
grandmother had been very unkind to her and beat her. "When Maggie was
ten years old, she had a fever, and she has never grown older since."

"Ten years old," said Maggie. "But what a nice hospital! So comfortable
wasn't it? Such a Ev'nly place! Such beds there is there! Such
lemonades! Such oranges! Such delicious broth and wine! Such chicking!
Oh, AIN'T it a delightful place to stop at!"

"Then when she came out, her grandmother did not know what to do with
her, and was very unkind. But after some time, Maggie tried to improve,
and was very attentive and industrious, and now she can earn her own
living entirely, sir!"

Little Dorrit did not say who had taken pains to teach and encourage the
poor half-witted creature, but Mr. Clennem guessed from the name Little
Mother, and the fondness of the poor creature for Amy.

Thanks to Mr. Clennem, a great change took place in the fortunes of the
family, and not long after this wretched night, it was discovered that
Mr. Dorrit was owner of a large property, and they became very rich.

When, in his turn, Mr. Clennem became a prisoner in the Marshalsea
little Dorrit came to comfort and console him, and after many changes of
fortune, she became his wife, and they lived happy ever after.




THE BLIND TOY-MAKER.


Caleb Plummer and his blind daughter lived alone in a little cracked
nutshell of a house. They were toy-makers, and their house was stuck
like a toadstool on to the premises of Messrs. Gruff & Tackleton, the
Toy Merchants for whom they worked,--the latter of whom was himself both
Gruff and Tackleton in one.

I am saying that Caleb and his blind daughter lived here. I should say
Caleb did, his daughter lived in an enchanted palace, which her father's
love had created for her. She did not know that the ceilings were
cracked, the plaster tumbling down, and the wood work rotten; that
everything was old and ugly and poverty-stricken about her and that her
father was a grey-haired stooping old man, and the master for whom they
worked a hard and brutal taskmaster;--oh, dear no, she fancied a pretty,
cosy, compact little home full of tokens of a kind master's care, a
smart, brisk, gallant-looking father, and a handsome and noble-looking
Toy Merchant who was an angel of goodness.

This was all Caleb's doings. When his blind daughter was a baby he had
determined in his great love and pity for her, that her deprivation
should be turned into a blessing, and her life as happy as he could make
it. And she was happy; everything about her she saw with her father's
eyes, in the rainbow-coloured light with which it was his care and
pleasure to invest it.

Bertha sat busily at work, making a doll's 