ime to answer, a footstep was heard within, a light
appeared, and Sir John, in his dressing-gown and slippers, opened the
door.

'I ask your pardon, Sir John,' said the porter, pulling off his hat.
'Here's a young man says he wants to speak to you. It's late for
strangers. I thought it best to see that all was right.'

'Aha!' cried Sir John, raising his eyebrows. 'It's you, messenger, is
it? Go in. Quite right, friend. I commend your prudence highly. Thank
you. God bless you. Good night.'

To be commended, thanked, God-blessed, and bade good night by one who
carried 'Sir' before his name, and wrote himself M.P. to boot, was
something for a porter. He withdrew with much humility and reverence.
Sir John followed his late visitor into the dressing-room, and sitting
in his easy-chair before the fire, and moving it so that he could see
him as he stood, hat in hand, beside the door, looked at him from head
to foot.

The old face, calm and pleasant as ever; the complexion, quite juvenile
in its bloom and clearness; the same smile; the wonted precision and
elegance of dress; the white, well-ordered teeth; the delicate hands;
the composed and quiet manner; everything as it used to be: no mark of
age or passion, envy, hate, or discontent: all unruffled and serene, and
quite delightful to behold.

He wrote himself M.P.--but how? Why, thus. It was a proud family--more
proud, indeed, than wealthy. He had stood in danger of arrest; of
bailiffs, and a jail--a vulgar jail, to which the common people with
small incomes went. Gentlemen of ancient houses have no privilege of
exemption from such cruel laws--unless they are of one great house, and
then they have. A proud man of his stock and kindred had the means of
sending him there. He offered--not indeed to pay his debts, but to let
him sit for a close borough until his own son came of age, which, if he
lived, would come to pass in twenty years. It was quite as good as an
Insolvent Act, and infinitely more genteel. So Sir John Chester was a
member of Parliament.

But how Sir John? Nothing so simple, or so easy. One touch with a sword
of state, and the transformation was effected. John Chester, Esquire,
M.P., attended court--went up with an address--headed a deputation.
Such elegance of manner, so many graces of deportment, such powers of
conversation, could never pass unnoticed. Mr was too common for
such merit. A man so gentlemanly should have been--but Fortune is
capricious--born a Duke: just as some dukes should have been born
labourers. He caught the fancy of the king, knelt down a grub, and rose
a butterfly. John Chester, Esquire, was knighted and became Sir John.

'I thought when you left me this evening, my esteemed acquaintance,'
said Sir John after a pretty long silence, 'that you intended to return
with all despatch?'

'So I did, master.'

'And so you have?' he retorted, glancing at his watch. 'Is that what you
would say?'

Instead of replying, Hugh changed the leg on which he leant, shuffled
his cap from one hand to the other, looked at the ground, the wall, the
ceiling, and finally at Sir John himself; before whose pleasant face he
lowered his eyes again, and fixed them on the floor.

'And how have you been employing yourself in the meanwhile?' quoth Sir
John, lazily crossing his legs. 'Where have you been? what harm have you
been doing?'

'No harm at all, master,' growled Hugh, with humility. 'I have only done
as you ordered.'

'As I WHAT?' returned Sir John.

'Well then,' said Hugh uneasily, 'as you advised, or said I ought, or
said I might, or said that you would do, if you was me. Don't be so hard
upon me, master.'

Something like an expression of triumph in the perfect control he had
established over this rough instrument appeared in the knight's face for
an instant; but it vanished directly, as he said--paring his nails while
speaking:

'When you say I ordered you, my good fellow, you imply that I directed
you to do something for me--something I wanted done--something for my
own ends and purposes--you see? Now I am sure I needn't enlarge upon the
extreme absurdity of such an idea, however unintentional; so please--'
and here he turned his eyes upon him--'to be more guarded. Will you?'

'I meant to give you no offence,' said Hugh. 'I don't know what to say.
You catch me up so very short.'

'You will be caught up much shorter, my good friend--infinitely
shorter--one of these days, depend upon it,' replied his patron calmly.
'By-the-bye, instead of wondering why you have been so long, my wonder
should be why you came at all. Why did you?'

'You know, master,' said Hugh, 'that I couldn't read the bill I found,
and that supposing it to be something particular from the way it was
wrapped up, I brought it here.'

'And could you ask no one else to read it, Bruin?' said Sir John.

'No one that I could trust with secrets, master. Since Barnaby Rudge
was lost sight of for good and all--and that's five years ago--I haven't
talked with any one but you.'

'You have done me honour, I am sure.'

'I have come to and fro, master, all through that time, when there was
anything to tell, because