ood dear--do.'

Mrs Varden complied. The locksmith followed with his hands in his
pockets, and Mr Tappertit trundled off with the chaise to a neighbouring
stable.

'Martha, my dear,' said the locksmith, when they reached the parlour,
'if you'll look to Dolly yourself or let somebody else do it, perhaps it
will be only kind and reasonable. She has been frightened, you know, and
is not at all well to-night.'

In fact, Dolly had thrown herself upon the sofa, quite regardless of
all the little finery of which she had been so proud in the morning, and
with her face buried in her hands was crying very much.

At first sight of this phenomenon (for Dolly was by no means accustomed
to displays of this sort, rather learning from her mother's example to
avoid them as much as possible) Mrs Varden expressed her belief that
never was any woman so beset as she; that her life was a continued scene
of trial; that whenever she was disposed to be well and cheerful, so
sure were the people around her to throw, by some means or other, a damp
upon her spirits; and that, as she had enjoyed herself that day, and
Heaven knew it was very seldom she did enjoy herself so she was now to
pay the penalty. To all such propositions Miggs assented freely. Poor
Dolly, however, grew none the better for these restoratives, but rather
worse, indeed; and seeing that she was really ill, both Mrs Varden and
Miggs were moved to compassion, and tended her in earnest.

But even then, their very kindness shaped itself into their usual course
of policy, and though Dolly was in a swoon, it was rendered clear to
the meanest capacity, that Mrs Varden was the sufferer. Thus when
Dolly began to get a little better, and passed into that stage in which
matrons hold that remonstrance and argument may be successfully applied,
her mother represented to her, with tears in her eyes, that if she had
been flurried and worried that day, she must remember it was the common
lot of humanity, and in especial of womankind, who through the whole
of their existence must expect no less, and were bound to make up their
minds to meek endurance and patient resignation. Mrs Varden entreated
her to remember that one of these days she would, in all probability,
have to do violence to her feelings so far as to be married; and that
marriage, as she might see every day of her life (and truly she did) was
a state requiring great fortitude and forbearance. She represented to
her in lively colours, that if she (Mrs V.) had not, in steering her
course through this vale of tears, been supported by a strong principle
of duty which alone upheld and prevented her from drooping, she must
have been in her grave many years ago; in which case she desired to know
what would have become of that errant spirit (meaning the locksmith), of
whose eye she was the very apple, and in whose path she was, as it were,
a shining light and guiding star?

Miss Miggs also put in her word to the same effect. She said that indeed
and indeed Miss Dolly might take pattern by her blessed mother, who,
she always had said, and always would say, though she were to be hanged,
drawn, and quartered for it next minute, was the mildest, amiablest,
forgivingest-spirited, longest-sufferingest female as ever she could
have believed; the mere narration of whose excellencies had worked such
a wholesome change in the mind of her own sister-in-law, that, whereas,
before, she and her husband lived like cat and dog, and were in the
habit of exchanging brass candlesticks, pot-lids, flat-irons, and other
such strong resentments, they were now the happiest and affectionatest
couple upon earth; as could be proved any day on application at Golden
Lion Court, number twenty-sivin, second bell-handle on the right-hand
doorpost. After glancing at herself as a comparatively worthless vessel,
but still as one of some desert, she besought her to bear in mind that
her aforesaid dear and only mother was of a weakly constitution and
excitable temperament, who had constantly to sustain afflictions in
domestic life, compared with which thieves and robbers were as nothing,
and yet never sunk down or gave way to despair or wrath, but, in
prize-fighting phraseology, always came up to time with a cheerful
countenance, and went in to win as if nothing had happened. When Miggs
finished her solo, her mistress struck in again, and the two together
performed a duet to the same purpose; the burden being, that Mrs Varden
was persecuted perfection, and Mr Varden, as the representative of
mankind in that apartment, a creature of vicious and brutal habits,
utterly insensible to the blessings he enjoyed. Of so refined a
character, indeed, was their talent of assault under the mask of
sympathy, that when Dolly, recovering, embraced her father tenderly,
as in vindication of his goodness, Mrs Varden expressed her solemn hope
that this would be a lesson to him for the remainder of his life,
and that he would do some little justice to a woman's nature ever
afterwards--in which aspiration Miss Miggs, by divers sniffs and
coughs, more significant than the longest oration, expressed her ent