 asked his aunt.

But David answered no, and begged and prayed her for his father's sake
to befriend and protect him, for neither Mr. nor Miss Murdstone had ever
liked him or been kind to him.

"Mr. Dick," said Miss Trotwood, "what shall I do with this child?"

Mr. Dick considered. "Have him measured for a suit of clothes directly."

"Mr. Dick," said Miss Trotwood, "your common sense is invaluable."

Then she pulled David towards her, and said to Mr. Murdstone, "You can
go when you like. I'll take my chance with the boy. If he's all you say
he is I can at least do as much for him as you have done. But I don't
believe a word of it."

Some clothes were bought for him that same day and marked "Trotwood
Copperfield," for his aunt wished to call him by her name.

Now David felt his troubles were over, and he began quite a new life,
well cared for and kindly treated. He was sent to a very nice school in
Canterbury, where his aunt left him with these words, which David never
forgot.

"Trot, be a credit to yourself, to me, and Mr. Dick, and Heaven be with
you. Never be mean in anything, never be false, never be cruel. Avoid
these three vices, Trot, and I shall always be hopeful of you."

David did his best to show his gratitude to his dear aunt by studying
hard, and trying to be all she could wish.

When you are older you can read how he grew up to be a good, clever man,
and met again all his old friends, and made many new ones.




JENNY WREN.


One day, a great many years ago, a gentleman ran up the steps of a tall
house in the neighborhood of St. Mary Axe.

The gentleman knocked and rang several times before any one came, but at
last an old man opened the door. "What were you up to that you did not
hear me?" said Mr. Fledgeby irritably.

"I was taking the air at the top of the house, sir," said the old man
meekly, "it being a holiday. What might you please to want, sir?"

"Humph! Holiday indeed," grumbled his master, who was a toy merchant
amongst other things. He then seated himself and gave the old man--a Jew
and Riah by name--directions about the dressing of some dolls, and, as
he rose to go, exclaimed--

"By the bye, how _do_ you take the air? Do you stick your head out of a
chimney-pot?"

"No, sir, I have made a little garden on the roof."

"Let's look at it," said Mr. Fledgeby.

"Sir, I have company there," returned Riah hesitating, "but will you
please come up and see them?"

Mr. Fledgeby nodded, and the old man led the way up flight after flight
of stairs, till they arrived at the house-top. Seated on a carpet, and
leaning against a chimney-stack, were two girls bending over books. Some
creepers were trained round the chimney-pots, and evergreens were placed
round the roof, and a few more books, a basket of gaily colored scraps,
and bits of tinsel, lay near. One of the girls rose on seeing that Riah
had brought a visitor, but the other remarked, "I'm the person of the
house downstairs, but I can't get up, whoever you are, because my back
is bad, and my legs are queer."

"This is my master," said Riah speaking to the two girls, "and this," he
added, turning to Mr. Fledgeby, "is Miss Jenny Wren; she lives in this
house, and is a clever little dressmaker for little people. Her friend
Lizzie," continued Riah, introducing the second girl. "They are good
girls, both, and as busy as they are good; in spare moments they come up
here, and take to book learning."

"Humph!" said Mr. Fledgeby, looking round, "Humph!" He was so much
surprised that apparently he couldn't get beyond that word.

Lizzie, the elder of these two girls, was strong and handsome, but the
little Jenny Wren, whom she so loved and protected, was small, and
deformed, though she had a beautiful little face, and the longest and
loveliest golden hair in the world, which fell about her like a cloak of
shining curls, as though to hide the poor little misshapen figure.

The Jew Riah, as well as Lizzie, was always kind and gentle to Jenny
Wren, who called him godfather. She had a father, who shared her poor
little rooms, whom she called her child, for he was a bad, drunken,
disreputable old man, and the poor girl had to care for him, and earn
money to keep them both. Sometimes the two girls, Jenny helping herself
along with a crutch, would go and walk about the fashionable streets. As
they walked along, Jenny would tell her friend of the fancies she had
when sitting alone at her work. "I imagine birds till I can hear them
sing," she said one day, "and flowers till I can smell them. And oh! the
beautiful children that come to me, in the early mornings! They are
quite different to other children, not like me, never cold, or anxious,
or tired, or hungry, never any pain; they come in numbers, in long
bright slanting rows, all dressed in white, with shiny heads. 'Who is
this in pain?' they say, and they sweep around and about me, take me up
in their arms, and I feel so light, and all the pain goes. I know they
are coming a long way off, by hearing them say, 'Who is this in pain?'
and I answer, 'Oh my blessed children, it's poor me! have pity on me,
and take me up and then the