hundred thousand strong. Ah! Let Lord George alone. He knows
his power. There'll be a good many faces inside them three windows over
there,' and he pointed to where the House of Commons overlooked the
river, 'that'll turn pale when good Lord George gets up this afternoon,
and with reason too! Ay, ay. Let his lordship alone. Let him alone.
HE knows!' And so, with much mumbling and chuckling and shaking of his
forefinger, he rose, with the assistance of his stick, and tottered off.

'Mother!' said Barnaby, 'that's a brave crowd he talks of. Come!'

'Not to join it!' cried his mother.

'Yes, yes,' he answered, plucking at her sleeve. 'Why not? Come!'

'You don't know,' she urged, 'what mischief they may do, where they may
lead you, what their meaning is. Dear Barnaby, for my sake--'

'For your sake!' he cried, patting her hand. 'Well! It IS for your sake,
mother. You remember what the blind man said, about the gold. Here's a
brave crowd! Come! Or wait till I come back--yes, yes, wait here.'

She tried with all the earnestness her fears engendered, to turn him
from his purpose, but in vain. He was stooping down to buckle on his
shoe, when a hackney-coach passed them rather quickly, and a voice
inside called to the driver to stop.

'Young man,' said a voice within.

'Who's that?' cried Barnaby, looking up.

'Do you wear this ornament?' returned the stranger, holding out a blue
cockade.

'In Heaven's name, no. Pray do not give it him!' exclaimed the widow.

'Speak for yourself, woman,' said the man within the coach, coldly.
'Leave the young man to his choice; he's old enough to make it, and
to snap your apron-strings. He knows, without your telling, whether he
wears the sign of a loyal Englishman or not.'

Barnaby, trembling with impatience, cried, 'Yes! yes, yes, I do,' as
he had cried a dozen times already. The man threw him a cockade, and
crying, 'Make haste to St George's Fields,' ordered the coachman to
drive on fast; and left them.

With hands that trembled with his eagerness to fix the bauble in his
hat, Barnaby was adjusting it as he best could, and hurriedly replying
to the tears and entreaties of his mother, when two gentlemen passed on
the opposite side of the way. Observing them, and seeing how Barnaby was
occupied, they stopped, whispered together for an instant, turned back,
and came over to them.

'Why are you sitting here?' said one of them, who was dressed in a plain
suit of black, wore long lank hair, and carried a great cane. 'Why have
you not gone with the rest?'

'I am going, sir,' replied Barnaby, finishing his task, and putting his
hat on with an air of pride. 'I shall be there directly.'

'Say "my lord," young man, when his lordship does you the honour of
speaking to you,' said the second gentleman mildly. 'If you don't know
Lord George Gordon when you see him, it's high time you should.'

'Nay, Gashford,' said Lord George, as Barnaby pulled off his hat again
and made him a low bow, 'it's no great matter on a day like this, which
every Englishman will remember with delight and pride. Put on your hat,
friend, and follow us, for you lag behind and are late. It's past ten
now. Didn't you know that the hour for assembling was ten o'clock?'

Barnaby shook his head and looked vacantly from one to the other.

'You might have known it, friend,' said Gashford, 'it was perfectly
understood. How came you to be so ill informed?'

'He cannot tell you, sir,' the widow interposed. 'It's of no use to ask
him. We are but this morning come from a long distance in the country,
and know nothing of these matters.'

'The cause has taken a deep root, and has spread its branches far and
wide,' said Lord George to his secretary. 'This is a pleasant hearing. I
thank Heaven for it!'

'Amen!' cried Gashford with a solemn face.

'You do not understand me, my lord,' said the widow. 'Pardon me, but you
cruelly mistake my meaning. We know nothing of these matters. We have no
desire or right to join in what you are about to do. This is my son, my
poor afflicted son, dearer to me than my own life. In mercy's name, my
lord, go your way alone, and do not tempt him into danger!'

'My good woman,' said Gashford, 'how can you!--Dear me!--What do you
mean by tempting, and by danger? Do you think his lordship is a roaring
lion, going about and seeking whom he may devour? God bless me!'

'No, no, my lord, forgive me,' implored the widow, laying both her hands
upon his breast, and scarcely knowing what she did, or said, in the
earnestness of her supplication, 'but there are reasons why you should
hear my earnest, mother's prayer, and leave my son with me. Oh do! He is
not in his right senses, he is not, indeed!'

'It is a bad sign of the wickedness of these times,' said Lord George,
evading her touch, and colouring deeply, 'that those who cling to the
truth and support the right cause, are set down as mad. Have you the
heart to say this of your own son, unnatural mother!'

'I am astonished at you!' said Gashford, with a kind of meek severity.
'This is a very sad picture of female depravity.'

'He has surely no appearance,' said Lord George, glancing