fiction, so wonderfully does Boz make his fiction blend
with reality.)  This was a serious blow.  Tindal was an admirable judge.
Did not his chroniclers write of him: "His sagacity, impartiality and
plain sense, his industry and clear sightedness made him an admiration of
non-professional spectators: while among lawyers he was very highly
esteemed _for his invariable kindness to all who appeared before him_.
He retained to the last their respect and affection."  With such a man
presiding Sergeant Buzfuz's eccentric violence and abuse of the defendant
would have been restrained ("having the outward appearance of a man and
not of a monster.")  Mr. Skimpin's gross insinuations, to wit, that
Winkle was "telegraphing" to his friend, would have been summarily put
down, and all "bullying" checked; more, he would have calmly kept
Counsel's attention to the issue.  This perfect impartiality would have
made him show to the Jury how little evidence there was to support the
plaintiff's case.  Instead came this unlucky indisposition: and his place
was taken by "my Brother Gaselee:" with what results Mr. Pickwick was to
learn disastrously.

It is curious, however, that the Chief Justice, in spite of his
indisposition, should still be associated with the case; for he had tried
the momentous case of Norton _v._ Melbourne, and had heard there letters
read, which were parodied in the "chops and tomato sauce" correspondence,
so Boz had him well before him.  The case had to be tried at the
Guildhall Sessions; so a fair and rational judge would have spoilt all
sport.  Further, as Boz had seen the fairness and dignity of the Chief
Justice he was naturally reluctant to exhibit him unfavorably.  The only
thing was to make the Chief Justice become suddenly "indisposed," and
have his place taken by a grotesque judge.

The Judge who was to try the case, Mr. Justice Stareleigh, as is well
known, was drawn from Sir Stephen Gaselee, of whose name Stareleigh is a
sort of synonym.  Serjeant Gaselee was once well known in the
prosecutions directed against Radicals and so-called Reformers, but
_Pickwick_ has given him a greater reputation.  The baiting he received
from patriotic advocates may have inflamed his temper and made him
irritable.  He is described by one author, in a most humorous, if
personal fashion.  He was "a most particularly short man, and so fat that
he seemed all face and waistcoat.  He rolled in upon two little turned
legs, and having bobbed gravely to the bar who bobbed gravely to him, put
his little legs under the table, when all you could see of him was two
queer little eyes, one broad, pink face, and somewhere about half of a
big and very comical-looking wig."  All through he is shown as arrogant
and incapable, and also as making some absurd mistakes.

It will be a surprise to most people to learn that this picture is no
more than an amusing caricature, and that the judge was really a person
of high character.  He is described as "a very painstaking, upright
judge, and, in his private capacity, a worthy and benevolent man."  Thus,
Mr. Croker, who, however, supplies a sound reason for his being the
subject of such satire.  "With many admirable qualities both of head and
heart, he had made himself a legitimate object of ridicule by his
explosions on the Bench."  Under such conditions, the Bar, the suitors
and the public had neither the wish nor the opportunity to search for
extenuating excuses in his private life.  They suffered enough from the
"explosions" and that was all that concerned them.  He had been fourteen
years on the Bench, and, like Stareleigh, belonged to the Common Pleas.
He was suffering too from infirmities, particularly from deafness, and
appears to have misapprehended statements in the same grotesque fashion
that he mistook Winkle's name.

Boz's fashion of burlesque, by the way, is happily shown in his treatment
of this topic.  Another would have been content with "Daniel," the simple
misapprehension.  "Nathaniel, sir," says Winkle.  "Daniel--any other
name?"  "Nathaniel, sir--my lord, I mean."  "_Nathaniel Daniel_--_or
Daniel Nathaniel_?"  "No, my lord, only Nathaniel, not Daniel at all."

"What did you tell me it was Daniel for, then, sir?"

"I didn't, my lord."

"You did, sir.  _How could I have got Nathaniel in my notes_, _unless you
told me so_, _sir_?"

How admirable is this.  The sly satire goes deeper, as Judges, under less
gross conditions, have often made this illogical appeal to "my notes."

Though not gifted with oratorical powers which were likely to gain him
employment as a leader, Gaselee's reputation for legal knowledge soon
recommended him to a judge's place.  He was accordingly selected on July
1st, 1824, to fill a vacancy in the Court of Common Pleas.  In that Court
he sat for nearly fourteen years "with the character of a painstaking
judge, and in his private capacity as a worthy and benevolent man."  Thus
Mr. Foss, F.S.A.

The reader will have noted the Judge's severity to poor Groffin, the
chemist, who had pleaded the danger of his boy mistaking oxalic acid for
Epsom salts.  Could it be that the J