, to have set them at liberty:
and, while he would have left any other punishment to its free course,
to have saved them from this last dreadful and repulsive penalty; which
never turned a man inclined to evil, and has hardened thousands who were
half inclined to good.

Mr Dennis, who had been bred and nurtured in the good old school, and
had administered the good old laws on the good old plan, always once
and sometimes twice every six weeks, for a long time, bore these appeals
with a deal of philosophy. Being at last, however, rather disturbed in
his pleasant reflection by their repetition, he rapped at one of the
doors with his stick, and cried:

'Hold your noise there, will you?'

At this they all cried together that they were to be hanged on the next
day but one; and again implored his aid.

'Aid! For what!' said Mr Dennis, playfully rapping the knuckles of the
hand nearest him.

'To save us!' they cried.

'Oh, certainly,' said Mr Dennis, winking at the wall in the absence
of any friend with whom he could humour the joke. 'And so you're to be
worked off, are you, brothers?'

'Unless we are released to-night,' one of them cried, 'we are dead men!'

'I tell you what it is,' said the hangman, gravely; 'I'm afraid, my
friend, that you're not in that 'ere state of mind that's suitable to
your condition, then; you're not a-going to be released: don't think
it--Will you leave off that 'ere indecent row? I wonder you an't ashamed
of yourselves, I do.'

He followed up this reproof by rapping every set of knuckles one after
the other, and having done so, resumed his seat again with a cheerful
countenance.

'You've had law,' he said, crossing his legs and elevating his eyebrows:
'laws have been made a' purpose for you; a wery handsome prison's
been made a' purpose for you; a parson's kept a purpose for you;
a constitootional officer's appointed a' purpose for you; carts is
maintained a' purpose for you--and yet you're not contented!--WILL you
hold that noise, you sir in the furthest?'

A groan was the only answer.

'So well as I can make out,' said Mr Dennis, in a tone of mingled
badinage and remonstrance, 'there's not a man among you. I begin to
think I'm on the opposite side, and among the ladies; though for the
matter of that, I've seen a many ladies face it out, in a manner that
did honour to the sex.--You in number two, don't grind them teeth of
yours. Worse manners,' said the hangman, rapping at the door with his
stick, 'I never see in this place afore. I'm ashamed of you. You're a
disgrace to the Bailey.'

After pausing for a moment to hear if anything could be pleaded in
justification, Mr Dennis resumed in a sort of coaxing tone:

'Now look'ee here, you four. I'm come here to take care of you, and see
that you an't burnt, instead of the other thing. It's no use your making
any noise, for you won't be found out by them as has broken in, and
you'll only be hoarse when you come to the speeches,--which is a pity.
What I say in respect to the speeches always is, "Give it mouth." That's
my maxim. Give it mouth. I've heerd,' said the hangman, pulling off his
hat to take his handkerchief from the crown and wipe his face, and then
putting it on again a little more on one side than before, 'I've heerd a
eloquence on them boards--you know what boards I mean--and have heerd
a degree of mouth given to them speeches, that they was as clear as a
bell, and as good as a play. There's a pattern! And always, when a thing
of this natur's to come off, what I stand up for, is, a proper frame of
mind. Let's have a proper frame of mind, and we can go through with it,
creditable--pleasant--sociable. Whatever you do (and I address myself in
particular, to you in the furthest), never snivel. I'd sooner by half,
though I lose by it, see a man tear his clothes a' purpose to spile
'em before they come to me, than find him snivelling. It's ten to one a
better frame of mind, every way!'

While the hangman addressed them to this effect, in the tone and with
the air of a pastor in familiar conversation with his flock, the noise
had been in some degree subdued; for the rioters were busy in conveying
the prisoners to the Sessions House, which was beyond the main walls of
the prison, though connected with it, and the crowd were busy too, in
passing them from thence along the street. But when he had got thus far
in his discourse, the sound of voices in the yard showed plainly that
the mob had returned and were coming that way; and directly afterwards a
violent crashing at the grate below, gave note of their attack upon the
cells (as they were called) at last.

It was in vain the hangman ran from door to door, and covered the
grates, one after another, with his hat, in futile efforts to stifle
the cries of the four men within; it was in vain he dogged their
outstretched hands, and beat them with his stick, or menaced them
with new and lingering pains in the execution of his office; the place
resounded with their cries. These, together with the feeling that they
were now the last men in the jail, so worked upon and stimulated the
besiegers, that in an incredibly 