. They who believe their merit neglected and
unappreciated, make up one class; they who receive adulation and
flattery, knowing their own worthlessness, compose the other. Be sure
that the coldest-hearted misanthropes are ever of this last order.

Mr Chester sat up in bed next morning, sipping his coffee, and
remembering with a kind of contemptuous satisfaction how he had shone
last night, and how he had been caressed and courted, when his servant
brought in a very small scrap of dirty paper, tightly sealed in two
places, on the inside whereof was inscribed in pretty large text these
words: 'A friend. Desiring of a conference. Immediate. Private. Burn it
when you've read it.'

'Where in the name of the Gunpowder Plot did you pick up this?' said his
master.

It was given him by a person then waiting at the door, the man replied.

'With a cloak and dagger?' said Mr Chester.

With nothing more threatening about him, it appeared, than a leather
apron and a dirty face. 'Let him come in.' In he came--Mr Tappertit;
with his hair still on end, and a great lock in his hand, which he put
down on the floor in the middle of the chamber as if he were about to go
through some performances in which it was a necessary agent.

'Sir,' said Mr Tappertit with a low bow, 'I thank you for this
condescension, and am glad to see you. Pardon the menial office in which
I am engaged, sir, and extend your sympathies to one, who, humble as his
appearance is, has inn'ard workings far above his station.'

Mr Chester held the bed-curtain farther back, and looked at him with a
vague impression that he was some maniac, who had not only broken open
the door of his place of confinement, but had brought away the lock. Mr
Tappertit bowed again, and displayed his legs to the best advantage.

'You have heard, sir,' said Mr Tappertit, laying his hand upon his
breast, 'of G. Varden Locksmith and bell-hanger and repairs neatly
executed in town and country, Clerkenwell, London?'

'What then?' asked Mr Chester.

'I'm his 'prentice, sir.'

'What THEN?'

'Ahem!' said Mr Tappertit. 'Would you permit me to shut the door, sir,
and will you further, sir, give me your honour bright, that what passes
between us is in the strictest confidence?'

Mr Chester laid himself calmly down in bed again, and turning a
perfectly undisturbed face towards the strange apparition, which had
by this time closed the door, begged him to speak out, and to be as
rational as he could, without putting himself to any very great personal
inconvenience.

'In the first place, sir,' said Mr Tappertit, producing a small
pocket-handkerchief and shaking it out of the folds, 'as I have not
a card about me (for the envy of masters debases us below that level)
allow me to offer the best substitute that circumstances will admit of.
If you will take that in your own hand, sir, and cast your eye on the
right-hand corner,' said Mr Tappertit, offering it with a graceful air,
'you will meet with my credentials.'

'Thank you,' answered Mr Chester, politely accepting it, and turning to
some blood-red characters at one end. '"Four. Simon Tappertit. One." Is
that the--'

'Without the numbers, sir, that is my name,' replied the 'prentice.
'They are merely intended as directions to the washerwoman, and have no
connection with myself or family. YOUR name, sir,' said Mr Tappertit,
looking very hard at his nightcap, 'is Chester, I suppose? You needn't
pull it off, sir, thank you. I observe E. C. from here. We will take the
rest for granted.'

'Pray, Mr Tappertit,' said Mr Chester, 'has that complicated piece of
ironmongery which you have done me the favour to bring with you, any
immediate connection with the business we are to discuss?'

'It has not, sir,' rejoined the 'prentice. 'It's going to be fitted on a
ware'us-door in Thames Street.'

'Perhaps, as that is the case,' said Mr Chester, 'and as it has a
stronger flavour of oil than I usually refresh my bedroom with, you will
oblige me so far as to put it outside the door?'

'By all means, sir,' said Mr Tappertit, suiting the action to the word.

'You'll excuse my mentioning it, I hope?'

'Don't apologise, sir, I beg. And now, if you please, to business.'

During the whole of this dialogue, Mr Chester had suffered nothing but
his smile of unvarying serenity and politeness to appear upon his face.
Sim Tappertit, who had far too good an opinion of himself to suspect
that anybody could be playing upon him, thought within himself that
this was something like the respect to which he was entitled, and drew
a comparison from this courteous demeanour of a stranger, by no means
favourable to the worthy locksmith.

'From what passes in our house,' said Mr Tappertit, 'I am aware, sir,
that your son keeps company with a young lady against your inclinations.
Sir, your son has not used me well.'

'Mr Tappertit,' said the other, 'you grieve me beyond description.'

'Thank you, sir,' replied the 'prentice. 'I'm glad to hear you say so.
He's very proud, sir, is your son; very haughty.'

'I am afraid he IS haughty,' said Mr Chester. 'Do you know I was really
afraid of that before; and you c