ion and improve
appearances; it is an affair of house and furniture, of liveries,
servants, equipage, and so forth. The lady being poor and you poor
also, there is an end of the matter. You cannot enter upon these
considerations, and have no manner of business with the ceremony. I
drink her health in this glass, and respect and honour her for her
extreme good sense. It is a lesson to you. Fill yours, Ned.'

'It is a lesson,' returned his son, 'by which I hope I may never profit,
and if years and experience impress it on--'

'Don't say on the heart,' interposed his father.

'On men whom the world and its hypocrisy have spoiled,' said Edward
warmly, 'Heaven keep me from its knowledge.'

'Come, sir,' returned his father, raising himself a little on the sofa,
and looking straight towards him; 'we have had enough of this. Remember,
if you please, your interest, your duty, your moral obligations, your
filial affections, and all that sort of thing, which it is so very
delightful and charming to reflect upon; or you will repent it.'

'I shall never repent the preservation of my self-respect, sir,' said
Edward. 'Forgive me if I say that I will not sacrifice it at your
bidding, and that I will not pursue the track which you would have me
take, and to which the secret share you have had in this late separation
tends.'

His father rose a little higher still, and looking at him as though
curious to know if he were quite resolved and earnest, dropped gently
down again, and said in the calmest voice--eating his nuts meanwhile,

'Edward, my father had a son, who being a fool like you, and, like you,
entertaining low and disobedient sentiments, he disinherited and cursed
one morning after breakfast. The circumstance occurs to me with a
singular clearness of recollection this evening. I remember eating
muffins at the time, with marmalade. He led a miserable life (the son,
I mean) and died early; it was a happy release on all accounts; he
degraded the family very much. It is a sad circumstance, Edward, when a
father finds it necessary to resort to such strong measures.

'It is,' replied Edward, 'and it is sad when a son, proffering him his
love and duty in their best and truest sense, finds himself repelled
at every turn, and forced to disobey. Dear father,' he added, more
earnestly though in a gentler tone, 'I have reflected many times on what
occurred between us when we first discussed this subject. Let there be
a confidence between us; not in terms, but truth. Hear what I have to
say.'

'As I anticipate what it is, and cannot fail to do so, Edward,' returned
his father coldly, 'I decline. I couldn't possibly. I am sure it would
put me out of temper, which is a state of mind I can't endure. If
you intend to mar my plans for your establishment in life, and the
preservation of that gentility and becoming pride, which our family
have so long sustained--if, in short, you are resolved to take your own
course, you must take it, and my curse with it. I am very sorry, but
there's really no alternative.'

'The curse may pass your lips,' said Edward, 'but it will be but empty
breath. I do not believe that any man on earth has greater power to call
one down upon his fellow--least of all, upon his own child--than he has
to make one drop of rain or flake of snow fall from the clouds above us
at his impious bidding. Beware, sir, what you do.'

'You are so very irreligious, so exceedingly undutiful, so horribly
profane,' rejoined his father, turning his face lazily towards him, and
cracking another nut, 'that I positively must interrupt you here. It is
quite impossible we can continue to go on, upon such terms as these. If
you will do me the favour to ring the bell, the servant will show you
to the door. Return to this roof no more, I beg you. Go, sir, since
you have no moral sense remaining; and go to the Devil, at my express
desire. Good day.'

Edward left the room without another word or look, and turned his back
upon the house for ever.

The father's face was slightly flushed and heated, but his manner was
quite unchanged, as he rang the bell again, and addressed the servant on
his entrance.

'Peak--if that gentleman who has just gone out--'

'I beg your pardon, sir, Mr Edward?'

'Were there more than one, dolt, that you ask the question?--If that
gentleman should send here for his wardrobe, let him have it, do you
hear? If he should call himself at any time, I'm not at home. You'll
tell him so, and shut the door.'


So, it soon got whispered about, that Mr Chester was very unfortunate
in his son, who had occasioned him great grief and sorrow. And the
good people who heard this and told it again, marvelled the more at his
equanimity and even temper, and said what an amiable nature that man
must have, who, having undergone so much, could be so placid and so
calm. And when Edward's name was spoken, Society shook its head, and
laid its finger on its lip, and sighed, and looked very grave; and those
who had sons about his age, waxed wrathful and indignant, and hoped, for
Virtue's sake, that he was dead. And the world went on turning round, as
usual, for fi