ite incorrigible in this respect,
Emma suffered her to depart; but not before she had confided to her that
important and never-sufficiently-to-be-taken-care-of answer, and endowed
her moreover with a pretty little bracelet as a keepsake. Having clasped
it on her arm, and again advised her half in jest and half in earnest to
amend her roguish ways, for she knew she was fond of Joe at heart (which
Dolly stoutly denied, with a great many haughty protestations that she
hoped she could do better than that indeed! and so forth), she bade
her farewell; and after calling her back to give her more supplementary
messages for Edward, than anybody with tenfold the gravity of Dolly
Varden could be reasonably expected to remember, at length dismissed
her.

Dolly bade her good bye, and tripping lightly down the stairs arrived at
the dreaded library door, and was about to pass it again on tiptoe, when
it opened, and behold! there stood Mr Haredale. Now, Dolly had from her
childhood associated with this gentleman the idea of something grim and
ghostly, and being at the moment conscience-stricken besides, the sight
of him threw her into such a flurry that she could neither acknowledge
his presence nor run away, so she gave a great start, and then with
downcast eyes stood still and trembled.

'Come here, girl,' said Mr Haredale, taking her by the hand. 'I want to
speak to you.'

'If you please, sir, I'm in a hurry,' faltered Dolly, 'and--you have
frightened me by coming so suddenly upon me, sir--I would rather go,
sir, if you'll be so good as to let me.'

'Immediately,' said Mr Haredale, who had by this time led her into the
room and closed the door. You shall go directly. You have just left
Emma?'

'Yes, sir, just this minute.--Father's waiting for me, sir, if you'll
please to have the goodness--'

I know. I know,' said Mr Haredale. 'Answer me a question. What did you
bring here to-day?'

'Bring here, sir?' faltered Dolly.

'You will tell me the truth, I am sure. Yes.'

Dolly hesitated for a little while, and somewhat emboldened by his
manner, said at last, 'Well then, sir. It was a letter.'

'From Mr Edward Chester, of course. And you are the bearer of the
answer?'

Dolly hesitated again, and not being able to decide upon any other
course of action, burst into tears.

'You alarm yourself without cause,' said Mr Haredale. 'Why are you so
foolish? Surely you can answer me. You know that I have but to put the
question to Emma and learn the truth directly. Have you the answer with
you?'

Dolly had what is popularly called a spirit of her own, and being now
fairly at bay, made the best of it.

'Yes, sir,' she rejoined, trembling and frightened as she was. 'Yes,
sir, I have. You may kill me if you please, sir, but I won't give it up.
I'm very sorry,--but I won't. There, sir.'

'I commend your firmness and your plain-speaking,' said Mr Haredale.
'Rest assured that I have as little desire to take your letter as your
life. You are a very discreet messenger and a good girl.'

Not feeling quite certain, as she afterwards said, whether he might not
be 'coming over her' with these compliments, Dolly kept as far from him
as she could, cried again, and resolved to defend her pocket (for the
letter was there) to the last extremity.

'I have some design,' said Mr Haredale after a short silence, during
which a smile, as he regarded her, had struggled through the gloom and
melancholy that was natural to his face, 'of providing a companion for
my niece; for her life is a very lonely one. Would you like the office?
You are the oldest friend she has, and the best entitled to it.'

'I don't know, sir,' answered Dolly, not sure but he was bantering her;
'I can't say. I don't know what they might wish at home. I couldn't give
an opinion, sir.'

'If your friends had no objection, would you have any?' said Mr
Haredale. 'Come. There's a plain question; and easy to answer.'

'None at all that I know of sir,' replied Dolly. 'I should be very glad
to be near Miss Emma of course, and always am.'

'That's well,' said Mr Haredale. 'That is all I had to say. You are
anxious to go. Don't let me detain you.'

Dolly didn't let him, nor did she wait for him to try, for the words
had no sooner passed his lips than she was out of the room, out of the
house, and in the fields again.

The first thing to be done, of course, when she came to herself and
considered what a flurry she had been in, was to cry afresh; and the
next thing, when she reflected how well she had got over it, was to
laugh heartily. The tears once banished gave place to the smiles, and at
last Dolly laughed so much that she was fain to lean against a tree,
and give vent to her exultation. When she could laugh no longer, and was
quite tired, she put her head-dress to rights, dried her eyes, looked
back very merrily and triumphantly at the Warren chimneys, which were
just visible, and resumed her walk.

The twilight had come on, and it was quickly growing dusk, but the path
was so familiar to her from frequent traversing that she hardly thought
of this, and certainly felt no uneasiness at being left alone. Moreover,
