ant somebody else, if it ain't inconvenient.  I _have_ Samuel
    Weller's name here, Mr. Pickwick.'

    'Send my servant here, waiter,' said Mr. Pickwick.  The waiter
    retired, considerably astonished, and Mr. Pickwick motioned Jackson
    to a seat.

    There was a painful pause, which was at length broken by the innocent
    defendant.

    'I suppose, sir,' said Mr. Pickwick, his indignation rising while he
    spoke; 'I suppose, sir, that it is the intention of your employers to
    seek to criminate me upon the testimony of my own friends?'

    Mr. Jackson struck his forefinger several times against the left side
    of his nose, to intimate that he was not there to disclose the
    secrets of the prison-house, and playfully rejoined:

    'Not knowin', can't say.'

    'For what other reason, sir,' pursued Mr. Pickwick, 'are these
    subpoenas served upon them, if not for this?'

    'Very good plant, Mr. Pickwick,' replied Jackson, slowly shaking his
    head.  'But it won't do.  No harm in trying, but there's little to be
    got out of me.'

    Here Mr. Jackson smiled once more upon the company, and, applying his
    left thumb to the tip of his nose, worked a visionary coffee-mill
    with his right hand: thereby performing a very graceful piece of
    pantomime (then much in vogue, but now, unhappily, almost obsolete)
    which was familiarly denominated 'taking a grinder.'  (Imagine a
    modern solicitor's clerk "Taking a grinder!")

    'No, no, Mr. Pickwick,' said Jackson, in conclusion; 'Perker's people
    must guess what we served these subpoenas for.  If they can't, they
    must wait till the action comes on, and then they'll find out.'

    Mr. Pickwick bestowed a look of excessive disgust on his unwelcome
    visitor, and would probably have hurled some tremendous anathema at
    the heads of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, had not Sam's entrance at the
    instant interrupted him.

    'Samuel Weller?' said Mr. Jackson, inquiringly.

    'Vun o' the truest things as you've said for many a long year,'
    replied Sam, in a most composed manner.

    'Here's a subpoena for you, Mr. Weller,' said Jackson.

    'What's that in English?' inquired Sam.

    'Here's the original,' said Jackson, declining the required
    explanation.

    'Which?' said Sam.

    'This,' replied Jackson, shaking the parchment.

    'Oh, that's the 'rig'nal, is it?' said Sam.  'Well, I'm wery glad
    I've seen the 'rig'nal, 'cos it's a gratifyin' sort o' thing, and
    eases vun's mind so much.'

    'And here's the shilling,' said Jackson.  'It's from Dodson and
    Fogg's.'

    'And it's uncommon handsome o' Dodson and Fogg, as knows so little of
    me, to come down vith a present,' said Sam.  'I feel it as a wery
    high compliment, sir; it's a wery hon'rable thing to them, as they
    knows how to reward merit werever they meets it.  Besides wich, it's
    affectin to one's feelin's.'

    As Mr. Weller said this, he inflicted a little friction on his right
    eye-lid, with the sleeve of his coat, after the most approved manner
    of actors when they are in domestic pathetics.

    Mr. Jackson seemed rather puzzled by Sam's proceedings; but, as he
    had served the subpoenas, and had nothing more to say, he made a
    feint of putting on the one glove which he usually carried in his
    hand, for the sake of appearances; and returned to the office to
    report progress.

Another of Mr. Pickwick's foolish and self-willed proceedings was the
interview with Serjeant Snubbin, which he so positively insisted upon.
We may wonder now-a-days would any K.C. of position have condescended to
allow such a proceeding?  I fancy it would be thought "irregular:" though
perhaps _ex gratia_, and from the oddity of the proposal, it might be
conceded.

When Mr. Pickwick called upon him, it turned out that the Serjeant knew
nothing whatever of his case; probably cared nothing about it.  It was
not in his line.  He perhaps wondered why the old-fashioned lawyer had
"retained" him.  We learn Parker's reason:

    'Well, we've done everything that's necessary.  I have engaged
    Serjeant Snubbin.'

    'Is he a good man?' inquired Mr. Pickwick.

    'Good man!' replied Perker; 'bless your heart and soul, my dear sir,
    Serjeant Snubbin is at the very top of his profession.  Gets treble
    the business of any man in court--engaged in every case.  You needn't
    mention it abroad; but we say--we of the profession--that Serjeant
    Snubbin leads the court by the nose.'

How foolish was this reasoning can be seen on an instant's reflection.
To "lead the court by the nose" is well enough in an argument before a
judge: but here it was more important to lead _a jury_ by the nose, which
Buzfuz knew how to do.  Moreover when a counsel has this power, it
usually operates on a special judge and his colleagues; but who could
guarantee that Snubbin's special judge would try the case.  As it turned
out, the Chief Justice fell sick before the day, and Mr. Justice
Stareleigh unexpectedly took the case.  He as it proved was anything but
"led by the 