m behind
    the curtains.

    'A gentleman!' said the lady with a terrific scream.

    'It's all over,' thought Mr. Pickwick.

    'A strange man,' shrieked the lady.  Another instant and the house
    would be alarmed.  Her garments rustled as she rushed towards the
    door.

    'Ma'am,'--said Mr. Pickwick, thrusting out his head, in the extremity
    of desperation, 'Ma'am.'

    Now although Mr. Pickwick was not actuated by any definite object in
    putting out his head, it was instantaneously productive of a good
    effect.  The lady, as we have alreaded stated, was near the door.
    She must pass it, to reach the staircase, and she would most
    undoubtedly have done so by this time, had not the sudden apparition
    of Mr. Pickwick's nightcap driven her back, into the remotest corner
    of the apartment, where she stood, staring wildly at Mr. Pickwick,
    while Mr. Pickwick, in his turn, stared wildly at her.

    'Wretch,'--said the lady, covering her eyes with her hands, 'what do
    you want here.'

    'Nothing, Ma'am--nothing whatever, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick,
    earnestly.

    'Nothing!' said the lady, looking up.

    'Nothing, Ma'am, upon my honour,' said Mr. Pickwick, nodding his head
    so energetically, that the tassel of his nightcap danced again.  'I
    am almost ready to sink, Ma'am, beneath the confusion of addressing a
    lady in my nightcap (here the lady hastily snatched off her's), but I
    can't get it off, Ma'am (here Mr. Pickwick gave it a tremendous tug
    in proof of the statment).  It is evident to me, Ma'am, now, that I
    have mistaken this bedroom for my own.  I had not been here five
    minutes, Ma'am, when you suddenly entered it.'

    'If this improbable story be really true, Sir,'--said the lady,
    sobbing violently, 'you will leave it instantly.'

    'I will, Ma'am, with the greatest pleasure,' replied Mr. Pickwick.

    'Instantly, Sir,' said the lady.

    'Certainly, Ma'am,' interposed Mr. Pickwick very quickly.
    'Certainly, Ma'am.  I--I--am very sorry, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick,
    making his appearance at the bottom of the bed, 'to have been the
    innocent occasion of this alarm and emotion; deeply sorry Ma'am.'

    The lady pointed to the door.  One excellent quality of Mr.
    Pickwick's character was beautifully displayed at this moment, under
    the most trying circumstances.  Although he had hastily put on his
    hat over his night cap, after the manner of the old patrol; although
    he carried his shoes and gaiters in his hand, and his coat and
    waistcoat over his arm, nothing could subdue his native politeness.

    'I am exceedingly sorry, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick, bowing very low.

    'If you are, Sir, you will at once leave the room,' said the lady.

    'Immediately, Ma'am; this instant, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick, opening
    the door, and dropping both his shoes with a loud crash in so doing.

    'I trust Ma'am,' resumed Mr. Pickwick, gathering up his shoes, and
    turning round to bow again, 'I trust, Ma'am, that my unblemished
    character, and the devoted respect I entertain for your sex, will
    plead as some slight excuse for this'--But before Mr. Pickwick could
    conclude the sentence, the lady had thrust him into the passage, and
    locked and bolted the door behind him.

    Whatever grounds of self-congratulation Mr. Pickwick might have, for
    having escaped so quietly from his late awkward situation, his
    present position was by no means enviable.  He was alone, in an open
    passage, in a strange house, in the middle of the night, half
    dressed; it was not to be supposed that he could find his way in
    perfect darkness to a room which he had been wholly unable to
    discover with a light, and if he made the slightest noise in his
    fruitless attempts to do so, he stood every chance of being shot at,
    and perhaps killed, by some wakeful traveller.  He had no resource
    but to remain where he was, until daylight appeared.  So after
    groping his way a few paces down the passage, and to his infinite
    alarm, stumbling over several pairs of boots in so doing, Mr.
    Pickwick crouched into a little recess in the wall, to wait for
    morning, as philosophically as he might.

    He was not destined, however, to undergo this additional trial of
    patience: for he had not been long ensconced in his present
    concealment when, to his unspeakable horror, a man, bearing a light,
    appeared at the end of the passage.  His horror was suddenly
    converted into joy, however, when he recognized the form of his
    faithful attendant.  It was indeed Mr. Samuel Weller, who after
    sitting up thus late, in conversation with the Boots, who was sitting
    up for the mail, was now about to retire to rest.

Imagine this story told by Miss Witherfield in open court, with all its
details, the lady's narrative being coloured by the recollection that she
had lost a suitable husband owing to her adventure.  Mr. Peter Magnus
would have deposed to Mr. Pickwick's extraordinary interest in the matter
of the 