ere at a
loss how to pursue the subject. At length Hugh, after some elbowing and
winking between himself and Mr Dennis, ventured to stay his hand, and to
ask him why he meddled with that riband in his hat.

'Because,' said the secretary, looking up with something between a snarl
and a smile; 'because to sit still and wear it, or to fall asleep and
wear it, is a mockery. That's all, friend.'

'What would you have us do, master!' cried Hugh.

'Nothing,' returned Gashford, shrugging his shoulders, 'nothing. When my
lord was reproached and threatened for standing by you, I, as a prudent
man, would have had you do nothing. When the soldiers were trampling you
under their horses' feet, I would have had you do nothing. When one of
them was struck down by a daring hand, and I saw confusion and dismay in
all their faces, I would have had you do nothing--just what you did,
in short. This is the young man who had so little prudence and so much
boldness. Ah! I am sorry for him.'

'Sorry, master!' cried Hugh.

'Sorry, Muster Gashford!' echoed Dennis.

'In case there should be a proclamation out to-morrow, offering five
hundred pounds, or some such trifle, for his apprehension; and in case
it should include another man who dropped into the lobby from the stairs
above,' said Gashford, coldly; 'still, do nothing.'

'Fire and fury, master!' cried Hugh, starting up. 'What have we done,
that you should talk to us like this!'

'Nothing,' returned Gashford with a sneer. 'If you are cast into prison;
if the young man--' here he looked hard at Barnaby's attentive face--'is
dragged from us and from his friends; perhaps from people whom he loves,
and whom his death would kill; is thrown into jail, brought out and
hanged before their eyes; still, do nothing. You'll find it your best
policy, I have no doubt.'

'Come on!' cried Hugh, striding towards the door. 'Dennis--Barnaby--come
on!'

'Where? To do what?' said Gashford, slipping past him, and standing with
his back against it.

'Anywhere! Anything!' cried Hugh. 'Stand aside, master, or the window
will serve our turn as well. Let us out!'

'Ha ha ha! You are of such--of such an impetuous nature,' said Gashford,
changing his manner for one of the utmost good fellowship and the
pleasantest raillery; 'you are such an excitable creature--but you'll
drink with me before you go?'

'Oh, yes--certainly,' growled Dennis, drawing his sleeve across his
thirsty lips. 'No malice, brother. Drink with Muster Gashford!'

Hugh wiped his heated brow, and relaxed into a smile. The artful
secretary laughed outright.

'Some liquor here! Be quick, or he'll not stop, even for that. He is a
man of such desperate ardour!' said the smooth secretary, whom Mr Dennis
corroborated with sundry nods and muttered oaths--'Once roused, he is a
fellow of such fierce determination!'

Hugh poised his sturdy arm aloft, and clapping Barnaby on the back,
bade him fear nothing. They shook hands together--poor Barnaby evidently
possessed with the idea that he was among the most virtuous and
disinterested heroes in the world--and Gashford laughed again.

'I hear,' he said smoothly, as he stood among them with a great measure
of liquor in his hand, and filled their glasses as quickly and as
often as they chose, 'I hear--but I cannot say whether it be true or
false--that the men who are loitering in the streets to-night are half
disposed to pull down a Romish chapel or two, and that they only want
leaders. I even heard mention of those in Duke Street, Lincoln's Inn
Fields, and in Warwick Street, Golden Square; but common report, you
know--You are not going?'

--'To do nothing, master, eh?' cried Hugh. 'No jails and halter for
Barnaby and me. They must be frightened out of that. Leaders are wanted,
are they? Now boys!'

'A most impetuous fellow!' cried the secretary. 'Ha ha! A courageous,
boisterous, most vehement fellow! A man who--'

There was no need to finish the sentence, for they had rushed out of the
house, and were far beyond hearing. He stopped in the middle of a laugh,
listened, drew on his gloves, and, clasping his hands behind him, paced
the deserted room for a long time, then bent his steps towards the busy
town, and walked into the streets.

They were filled with people, for the rumour of that day's proceedings
had made a great noise. Those persons who did not care to leave home,
were at their doors or windows, and one topic of discourse prevailed
on every side. Some reported that the riots were effectually put down;
others that they had broken out again: some said that Lord George Gordon
had been sent under a strong guard to the Tower; others that an attempt
had been made upon the King's life, that the soldiers had been again
called out, and that the noise of musketry in a distant part of the town
had been plainly heard within an hour. As it grew darker, these stories
became more direful and mysterious; and often, when some frightened
passenger ran past with tidings that the rioters were not far off,
and were coming up, the doors were shut and barred, lower windows
made secure, and as much consternation engendered, as if the city 