 pain will go.'"

  [Illustration: JENNIE WREN.
  "THE BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN THAT COME TO ME."]

Lizzie sat stroking and brushing the beautiful hair, when they were at
home again, and as she kissed her good-night, a miserable old man
stumbled into the room. "How's my Jenny Wren, best of children?" he
mumbled, as he shuffled unsteadily towards her, but Jenny pointed her
small finger towards him exclaiming--"Go along with you, you bad,
wicked, old child, you troublesome, wicked, old thing, _I_ know where
you have been; ain't you ashamed of yourself, you disgraceful boy?"
"Yes; my dear, yes," stammered the tipsy old father, tumbling into a
corner. One day when Jenny was on her way home with Riah, they came on a
small crowd of people. A tipsy man had been knocked down and badly
hurt--"Let us see what it is!" said Jennie. The next moment she
exclaimed--"Oh, gentlemen--gentlemen, he is my child, he belongs to me,
my poor, bad, old child!"

"Your child--belongs to you--" repeated the man who was about to lift
the helpless figure on to a stretcher. "Aye, it's old Dolls--tipsy old
Dolls--" cried some one in the crowd, for it was by this name that they
knew the old man.

"He's her father, sir," said Riah in a low tone to the doctor who was
now bending over the stretcher.

"So much the worse," answered the doctor, "for the man is dead."

Yes, "Mr. Dolls" was dead, and many were the dresses which the weary
fingers of the sorrowful little worker must make in order to pay for his
humble funeral, and buy a black frock for herself. Often the tears
rolled down on to her work. "My poor child," she said to Riah, "my poor
old child, and to think I scolded him so."

"You were always a good, brave, patient girl," returned Riah, "always
good and patient, however tired."

And so the poor little "person of the house" was left alone but for the
faithful affection of the kind Jew, and her friend Lizzie. Her room grew
pretty comfortable, for she was in great request in her "profession" as
she called it, and there was now no one to spend and waste her earnings.
But nothing could make her life otherwise than a suffering one till the
happy morning, when her child-angels visited her for the last time and
carried her away to the land where all such pain as hers is healed for
evermore.




PIP'S ADVENTURE.


All that little Philip Pirrip, usually called Pip, knew about his father
and mother, and five little brothers, was from seeing their tombstones
in the churchyard. He was taken care of by his sister, who was twenty
years older than himself. She had married a blacksmith, named Joe
Gargery, a kind, good man, while she, unfortunately, was a hard, stern
woman, and treated her little brother and her amiable husband with great
harshness. They lived in a marshy part of the country, about twenty
miles from the sea.

One cold raw day towards evening, when Pip was about six years old, he
wandered into the churchyard, and trying to make out what he could of
the inscriptions on his family tombstones, and the darkness coming on,
he felt very lonely and frightened, and began to cry.

"Hold your noise!" cried a terrible voice, and a man started up from
among the graves close to him. "Keep still, you little imp, or I'll cut
your throat!"

He was a dreadful looking man, dressed in coarse grey cloth, with a
great iron on his leg. Wet, muddy and miserable, his teeth chattered in
his head, as he seized Pip by the chin.

"Oh! don't cut my throat, sir," cried Pip, in terror.

"Tell us your name!" said the man. "Quick!"

"Pip, sir."

"Once more," said the man, staring at him. "Give it mouth."

"Pip. Pip, sir."

"Show us where you live," said the man. "Point out the place."

Pip showed him the village, about a mile or more from the church.

The man looked at him for a moment, and then turned him upside down and
emptied his pockets. He found nothing in them but a piece of bread,
which he ate ravenously.

"Now lookee here," said the man. "Where's your mother?"

"There, sir," said Pip.

At this the man started to run away, but stopped and looked over his
shoulder.

"There, sir," explained Pip, showing him the tombstone.

"Oh, and is that your father along of your mother?"

"Yes, sir," said Pip.

"Ha!" muttered the man, "then who d'ye live with--supposin' you're
kindly let to live, which I han't made up my mind about?"

"My sister, sir, Mrs. Joe Gargery, wife of Joe Gargery, the blacksmith,
sir."

"Blacksmith, eh?" said the man, and looked down at his leg. Then he
seized the trembling little boy by both arms, and glaring down at him,
he said,--

"Now lookee here, the question being whether you're to be let to
live--You know what a file is?"

"Yes, sir."

"And you know what wittles is?"

"Yes, sir."

"You get me a file, and you get me wittles--you bring 'em both to me."
All this time he was tilting poor Pip backwards till he was dreadfully
frightened and giddy.

"You bring me, to-morrow morning early, that file and them wittles--You
do it, and you never dare to say a word or dare to make a sign
concerning your having seen such a person as me, or any person sumever,
and you shall be let 