t as fast as can be,
       And put in the oven for Tommy and me.

Now we do not find that the Serjeant made any use of this topic in his
speech.  He might have surely urged that this "wily and experienced
widow" was eager for a husband, that having been "thrown over" by her
baker and stung by the mortification, she resolved, as it were, to
rehabilitate herself and prepare this "plant" for her unsuspecting
lodger.  As Sir Henry Irving says in the play, "I don't like widows;
_they know too much_."  F. C. B., as I have said, has treated this baker
theme and developed it regularly in his amusing operetta "Pickwick."

The little epitome given of Snubbin's speech shows how weak were his
topics, and that he, in fact, considered that there was no defence.

    Serjeant Snubbin then addressed the jury on behalf of the defendant;
    and a very long and a very emphatic address he delivered, in which he
    bestowed the highest possible eulogiums on the conduct and character
    of Mr. Pickwick.  He attempted to show that the letters which had
    been exhibited, merely related to Mr. Pickwick's dinner, or to the
    preparations for receiving him in his apartments on his return from
    some country excursion.  It is sufficient to add in general terms,
    that he did the best he could for Mr. Pickwick; and the best, as
    everybody knows on the infallible authority of the old adage, could
    do no more.

This was no more than speaking "in mitigation of damages."

Mr. Phunky made no speech, which was just as well, as he might have but
damaged the case, as no witnesses had been called on his side.  For the
same reason, the Court had not the pleasure of hearing Skimpin, who would
no doubt have "torn the Defendant's case to tatters."




CHARGE AND VERDICT.


The regular formula is this.  The judge begins to read his notes, and
makes "running comments" as he goes along.  "We have first, gentlemen,
the statement of Mrs. Cluppins, she tells you, &c.  Of course she comes
as the friend of the Plaintiff, and naturally takes a favourable view of
her case.  If you are satisfied with her statement, it is for you,
gentlemen, to consider what value you will attach to it.  Then we come to
the question of damages.  This is entirely a matter for you.  You must
take into account the position in life of the Defendant, and what the
Plaintiff has lost by his default.  On the other hand they must be
reasonable in amount.  If you believe the promise has been clearly
established, you should give substantial though not excessive damages, on
a scale sufficient to repay the Plaintiff for the wrong.  On the other
hand--should it seem to you doubtful whether the promise had been
made--you will give the Defendant the benefit of the doubt.  These are
questions entirely for you--not for me.  On the whole case, you will ask
yourselves, whether a promise such as would satisfy reasonable men, has
been supported by sufficient evidence.  If so, Plaintiff is entitled to
damages--on the other hand, if this is not proved to your satisfaction,
you will find for the Defendant."

Mr. Justice Stareleigh, however, as we are told, then "summed up in his
old established and most approved form.  He read as much of his notes as
he could decypher on so short a notice, and made running comments on the
evidence as he went along.  If Mrs. Bardell were right, it was perfectly
clear that Mr. Pickwick was wrong, and if they thought the evidence of
Mrs. Cluppins worthy of credence, they would believe it, and if they
didn't, why they would'nt.  If they were satisfied that a breach of
promise had been committed, they would find for the Plaintiff, with such
damages as they thought proper; and if, on the other hand, it appeared to
them that no promise of marriage had ever been given, they would find for
the Defendant, with no damages at all."  Such was this lucid
direction--which is really, not in the least, an exaggeration.

But I could fancy some acute judge of our time--such as Mr. Justice Day
or Mr. Justice Bigham--after trying this case, turning round in his seat
to "charge" the jury.  "Here, gentlemen," he would tell them, "we have it
claimed on one side that a promise of marriage was made--and broken; on
the other hand the Defendant denies having ever given such a promise.
The question you will have to deal with is: What was this promise, and
when was it given?  In other words, _when_ did the Defendant propose to
the lady.  On the part of the Plaintiff, this was said to have been done
at the interview in Goswell Street, and two friends of the
Plaintiff--Mrs. Cluppins, I think"--turning over his notes--"yes,
Cluppins, and Sanders both declare positively that they overheard the
language of the proposal.  Further, Mr. Pickwick's friends are called, to
prove that the lady was in his arms, fainting.  It is extraordinary that
not one of these three gentlemen should have deposed to any statements or
have offered explanations of the situation.  One witness indeed says that
he heard the Defendant remonstrate with the Plaintiff, on her hysterical
behaviour, and ask her to consider that if any 