nose."  Perker indeed, summed up the whole weakness of the
case in a single sentence:

    'They have subpoena'd my three friends,' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Ah! of course they would,' replied Perker.  'Important witnesses;
    saw you in a delicate situation.'

    'But she fainted of her own accord,' said Mr. Pickwick.  'She threw
    herself into my arms.'

    'Very likely, my dear sir,' replied Perker; 'very likely and very
    natural.  Nothing more so, my dear sir, nothing.  _But who's to prove
    it_?'

A suggestion, we are told, that rather "staggered" Mr. Pickwick.

Within ten minutes after he had received the assurance that the thing was
impossible, he was conducted by his solicitors into the outer office of
the great Serjeant Snubbin himself.

    It was an uncarpeted room of tolerable dimensions, with a large
    writing table drawn up near the fire, the baize top of which had long
    since lost all claim to its original hue of green, and had gradually
    grown grey with dust and age, except where all traces of its natural
    colour were obliterated by ink-stains.  Upon the table were numerous
    little bundles of papers tied with red tape; and behind it, sat an
    elderly clerk, whose sleek appearance and heavy gold watch-chain
    presented imposing indications of the extensive and lucrative
    practice of Mr. Serjeant Snubbin.

    'Is the Serjeant in his room, Mr. Mallard?' inquired Perker, offering
    his box with all imaginable courtesy.

    'Yes, he is,' was the reply, 'but he's very busy.  Look here; not an
    opinion given yet, on any one of these cases; and an expedition fee
    paid with all of them.'  The clerk smiled as he said this, and
    inhaled the pinch of snuff with a zest which seemed to be compounded
    of a fondness for snuff and a relish for fees.

    'Something like practice that,' said Perker.

    'Yes,' said the barrister's clerk, producing his own box, and
    offering it with the greatest cordiality; 'and the best of it is,
    that as nobody alive except myself can read the Serjeant's writing,
    they are obliged to wait for the opinions, when he has given them,
    till I have copied 'em, ha--ha--ha!'

    'Which makes good for we know who, besides the Serjeant, and draws a
    little more out of his clients, eh?' said Perker; 'Ha, ha, ha!'  At
    this the Serjeant's clerk laughed again--not a noisy boisterous
    laugh, but a silent, internal chuckle, which Mr. Pickwick disliked to
    hear.  When a man bleeds inwardly, it is a dangerous thing for
    himself; but when he laughs inwardly, it bodes no good to other
    people.

    'You haven't made me out that little list of the fees that I'm in
    your debt, have you?' said Perker.

    'No, I have not,' replied the clerk.

    'I wish you would,' said Perker.  'Let me have them, and I'll send
    you a cheque.  But I suppose you're too busy pocketing the ready
    money, to think of the debtors, eh? ha, ha, ha!'  This sally seemed
    to tickle the clerk, amazingly, and he once more enjoyed a little
    quiet laugh to himself.

    'But, Mr. Mallard, my dear friend,' said Perker, suddenly recovering
    his gravity, and drawing the great man's great man into a corner, by
    the lappel of his coat, 'you must persuade the Serjeant to see me,
    and my client here.'

    'Come, come,' said the clerk, 'that's not bad either.  See the
    Serjeant! come, that's too absurd.'  Notwithstanding the absurdity of
    the proposal, however, the clerk allowed himself to be gently drawn
    beyond the hearing of Mr. Pickwick; and after a short conversation
    conducted in whispers, walked softly down a little dark passage and
    disappeared into the legal luminary's sanctum, from whence he shortly
    returned on tiptoe, and informed Mr. Perker and Mr. Pickwick that the
    Serjeant had been prevailed upon, in violation of all his established
    rules and customs, to admit them at once.

    The Serjeant was writing when his clients entered; he bowed
    abstractedly when Mr. Pickwick was introduced by his solicitor; and
    then, motioning them to a seat, put his pen carefully in the
    inkstand, nursed his left leg, and waited to be spoken to.

    'Mr. Pickwick is the defendant in Bardell and Pickwick, Serjeant
    Snubbin,' said Perker.

    'I am retained in that, am I?' said the Serjeant.

    'You are, Sir,' replied Perker.

    The Serjeant nodded his head, and waited for something else.

    'Mr. Pickwick was anxious to call upon you, Serjeant Snubbin,' said
    Perker, 'to state to you, before you entered upon the case, that he
    denies there being any ground or pretence whatever for the action
    against him; and that unless he came into court with clean hands, and
    without the most conscientious conviction that he was right in
    resisting the plaintiff's demand, he would not be there at all.  I
    believe I state your views correctly; do I not, my dear Sir?' said
    the little man, turning to Mr. Pickwick.

    'Quite so,' replied that gentleman.

    Mr. Serjeant Snubbin unfolded his glasses, raised