to increase, not merely there, but in the lobby below; from
which place no doubt, some man who acted as fugleman to the rest, was
constantly looking up and watching him.

'Order!' cried Hugh, in a voice which made itself heard even above the
roar and tumult, as Lord George appeared at the top of the staircase.
'News! News from my lord!'

The noise continued, notwithstanding his appearance, until Gashford
looked round. There was silence immediately--even among the people in
the passages without, and on the other staircases, who could neither
see nor hear, but to whom, notwithstanding, the signal was conveyed with
marvellous rapidity.

'Gentlemen,' said Lord George, who was very pale and agitated, we must
be firm. They talk of delays, but we must have no delays. They talk of
taking your petition into consideration next Tuesday, but we must have
it considered now. Present appearances look bad for our success, but we
must succeed and will!'

'We must succeed and will!' echoed the crowd. And so among their shouts
and cheers and other cries, he bowed to them and retired, and presently
came back again. There was another gesture from Gashford, and a dead
silence directly.

'I am afraid,' he said, this time, 'that we have little reason,
gentlemen, to hope for any redress from the proceedings of Parliament.
But we must redress our own grievances, we must meet again, we must put
our trust in Providence, and it will bless our endeavours.'

This speech being a little more temperate than the last, was not so
favourably received. When the noise and exasperation were at their
height, he came back once more, and told them that the alarm had gone
forth for many miles round; that when the King heard of their assembling
together in that great body, he had no doubt, His Majesty would send
down private orders to have their wishes complied with; and--with the
manner of his speech as childish, irresolute, and uncertain as his
matter--was proceeding in this strain, when two gentlemen suddenly
appeared at the door where he stood, and pressing past him and coming a
step or two lower down upon the stairs, confronted the people.

The boldness of this action quite took them by surprise. They were
not the less disconcerted, when one of the gentlemen, turning to Lord
George, spoke thus--in a loud voice that they might hear him well, but
quite coolly and collectedly:

'You may tell these people, if you please, my lord, that I am General
Conway of whom they have heard; and that I oppose this petition, and all
their proceedings, and yours. I am a soldier, you may tell them, and I
will protect the freedom of this place with my sword. You see, my lord,
that the members of this House are all in arms to-day; you know that the
entrance to it is a narrow one; you cannot be ignorant that there are
men within these walls who are determined to defend that pass to the
last, and before whom many lives must fall if your adherents persevere.
Have a care what you do.'

'And my Lord George,' said the other gentleman, addressing him in like
manner, 'I desire them to hear this, from me--Colonel Gordon--your
near relation. If a man among this crowd, whose uproar strikes us deaf,
crosses the threshold of the House of Commons, I swear to run my sword
that moment--not into his, but into your body!'

With that, they stepped back again, keeping their faces towards the
crowd; took each an arm of the misguided nobleman; drew him into the
passage, and shut the door; which they directly locked and fastened on
the inside.

This was so quickly done, and the demeanour of both gentlemen--who
were not young men either--was so gallant and resolute, that the crowd
faltered and stared at each other with irresolute and timid looks. Many
tried to turn towards the door; some of the faintest-hearted cried they
had best go back, and called to those behind to give way; and the panic
and confusion were increasing rapidly, when Gashford whispered Hugh.

'What now!' Hugh roared aloud, turning towards them. 'Why go back? Where
can you do better than here, boys! One good rush against these doors and
one below at the same time, will do the business. Rush on, then! As to
the door below, let those stand back who are afraid. Let those who are
not afraid, try who shall be the first to pass it. Here goes! Look out
down there!'

Without the delay of an instant, he threw himself headlong over the
bannisters into the lobby below. He had hardly touched the ground when
Barnaby was at his side. The chaplain's assistant, and some members who
were imploring the people to retire, immediately withdrew; and then,
with a great shout, both crowds threw themselves against the doors
pell-mell, and besieged the House in earnest.

At that moment, when a second onset must have brought them into
collision with those who stood on the defensive within, in which case
great loss of life and bloodshed would inevitably have ensued,--the
hindmost portion of the crowd gave way, and the rumour spread from mouth
to mouth that a messenger had been despatched by water for the military,
who were forming in the street. Fearful of sustaining a