 want to inveigle you.
The king's not come to that, I hope. Brisk young blood is what we
want; not milk and water. We won't take five men out of six. We want
top-sawyers, we do. I'm not a-going to tell tales out of school, but,
damme, if every gentleman's son that carries arms in our corps, through
being under a cloud and having little differences with his relations,
was counted up'--here his eye fell on Joe again, and so good-naturedly,
that Joe beckoned him out. He came directly.

'You're a gentleman, by G--!' was his first remark, as he slapped him
on the back. 'You're a gentleman in disguise. So am I. Let's swear a
friendship.'

Joe didn't exactly do that, but he shook hands with him, and thanked him
for his good opinion.

'You want to serve,' said his new friend. 'You shall. You were made for
it. You're one of us by nature. What'll you take to drink?'

'Nothing just now,' replied Joe, smiling faintly. 'I haven't quite made
up my mind.'

'A mettlesome fellow like you, and not made up his mind!' cried the
serjeant. 'Here--let me give the bell a pull, and you'll make up your
mind in half a minute, I know.'

'You're right so far'--answered Joe, 'for if you pull the bell here,
where I'm known, there'll be an end of my soldiering inclinations in no
time. Look in my face. You see me, do you?'

'I do,' replied the serjeant with an oath, 'and a finer young fellow or
one better qualified to serve his king and country, I never set my--' he
used an adjective in this place--'eyes on.

'Thank you,' said Joe, 'I didn't ask you for want of a compliment, but
thank you all the same. Do I look like a sneaking fellow or a liar?'

The serjeant rejoined with many choice asseverations that he didn't; and
that if his (the serjeant's) own father were to say he did, he would
run the old gentleman through the body cheerfully, and consider it a
meritorious action.

Joe expressed his obligations, and continued, 'You can trust me then,
and credit what I say. I believe I shall enlist in your regiment
to-night. The reason I don't do so now is, because I don't want until
to-night, to do what I can't recall. Where shall I find you, this
evening?'

His friend replied with some unwillingness, and after much ineffectual
entreaty having for its object the immediate settlement of the business,
that his quarters would be at the Crooked Billet in Tower Street; where
he would be found waking until midnight, and sleeping until breakfast
time to-morrow.

'And if I do come--which it's a million to one, I shall--when will you
take me out of London?' demanded Joe.

'To-morrow morning, at half after eight o'clock,' replied the serjeant.
'You'll go abroad--a country where it's all sunshine and plunder--the
finest climate in the world.'

'To go abroad,' said Joe, shaking hands with him, 'is the very thing I
want. You may expect me.'

'You're the kind of lad for us,' cried the serjeant, holding Joe's hand
in his, in the excess of his admiration. 'You're the boy to push your
fortune. I don't say it because I bear you any envy, or would take away
from the credit of the rise you'll make, but if I had been bred and
taught like you, I'd have been a colonel by this time.'

'Tush, man!' said Joe, 'I'm not so young as that. Needs must when the
devil drives; and the devil that drives me is an empty pocket and an
unhappy home. For the present, good-bye.'

'For king and country!' cried the serjeant, flourishing his cap.

'For bread and meat!' cried Joe, snapping his fingers. And so they
parted.

He had very little money in his pocket; so little indeed, that after
paying for his breakfast (which he was too honest and perhaps too proud
to score up to his father's charge) he had but a penny left. He had
courage, notwithstanding, to resist all the affectionate importunities
of the serjeant, who waylaid him at the door with many protestations of
eternal friendship, and did in particular request that he would do him
the favour to accept of only one shilling as a temporary accommodation.
Rejecting his offers both of cash and credit, Joe walked away with
stick and bundle as before, bent upon getting through the day as he best
could, and going down to the locksmith's in the dusk of the evening;
for it should go hard, he had resolved, but he would have a parting word
with charming Dolly Varden.

He went out by Islington and so on to Highgate, and sat on many stones
and gates, but there were no voices in the bells to bid him turn. Since
the time of noble Whittington, fair flower of merchants, bells have come
to have less sympathy with humankind. They only ring for money and on
state occasions. Wanderers have increased in number; ships leave the
Thames for distant regions, carrying from stem to stern no other cargo;
the bells are silent; they ring out no entreaties or regrets; they are
used to it and have grown worldly.

Joe bought a roll, and reduced his purse to the condition (with a
difference) of that celebrated purse of Fortunatus, which, whatever were
its favoured owner's necessities, had one unvarying amount in it. In
these real times, when all the Fairies are dead and buried, there ar