n to
detect this state of feeling in the quondam 'prentice, for it not only
proclaimed itself impressively and beyond mistake in his majestic
walk and kindling eye, but found a striking means of revelation in his
turned-up nose, which scouted all things of earth with deep disdain, and
sought communion with its kindred skies.

Mr Tappertit, as chief or captain of the Bulldogs, was attended by his
two lieutenants; one, the tall comrade of his younger life; the other, a
'Prentice Knight in days of yore--Mark Gilbert, bound in the olden time
to Thomas Curzon of the Golden Fleece. These gentlemen, like himself,
were now emancipated from their 'prentice thraldom, and served as
journeymen; but they were, in humble emulation of his great example,
bold and daring spirits, and aspired to a distinguished state in great
political events. Hence their connection with the Protestant Association
of England, sanctioned by the name of Lord George Gordon; and hence
their present visit to The Boot.

'Gentlemen!' said Mr Tappertit, taking off his hat as a great general
might in addressing his troops. 'Well met. My lord does me and you the
honour to send his compliments per self.'

'You've seen my lord too, have you?' said Dennis. 'I see him this
afternoon.'

'My duty called me to the Lobby when our shop shut up; and I saw him
there, sir,' Mr Tappertit replied, as he and his lieutenants took their
seats. 'How do YOU do?'

'Lively, master, lively,' said the fellow. 'Here's a new brother,
regularly put down in black and white by Muster Gashford; a credit to
the cause; one of the stick-at-nothing sort; one arter my own heart.
D'ye see him? Has he got the looks of a man that'll do, do you think?'
he cried, as he slapped Hugh on the back.

'Looks or no looks,' said Hugh, with a drunken flourish of his arm, 'I'm
the man you want. I hate the Papists, every one of 'em. They hate me and
I hate them. They do me all the harm they can, and I'll do them all the
harm I can. Hurrah!'

'Was there ever,' said Dennis, looking round the room, when the echo
of his boisterous voice bad died away; 'was there ever such a game boy!
Why, I mean to say, brothers, that if Muster Gashford had gone a hundred
mile and got together fifty men of the common run, they wouldn't have
been worth this one.'

The greater part of the company implicitly subscribed to this
opinion, and testified their faith in Hugh by nods and looks of great
significance. Mr Tappertit sat and contemplated him for a long time in
silence, as if he suspended his judgment; then drew a little nearer to
him, and eyed him over more carefully; then went close up to him, and
took him apart into a dark corner.

'I say,' he began, with a thoughtful brow, 'haven't I seen you before?'

'It's like you may,' said Hugh, in his careless way. 'I don't know;
shouldn't wonder.'

'No, but it's very easily settled,' returned Sim. 'Look at me. Did you
ever see ME before? You wouldn't be likely to forget it, you know, if
you ever did. Look at me. Don't be afraid; I won't do you any harm. Take
a good look--steady now.'

The encouraging way in which Mr Tappertit made this request, and
coupled it with an assurance that he needn't be frightened, amused Hugh
mightily--so much indeed, that he saw nothing at all of the small man
before him, through closing his eyes in a fit of hearty laughter, which
shook his great broad sides until they ached again.

'Come!' said Mr Tappertit, growing a little impatient under this
disrespectful treatment. 'Do you know me, feller?'

'Not I,' cried Hugh. 'Ha ha ha! Not I! But I should like to.'

'And yet I'd have wagered a seven-shilling piece,' said Mr Tappertit,
folding his arms, and confronting him with his legs wide apart and
firmly planted on the ground, 'that you once were hostler at the
Maypole.'

Hugh opened his eyes on hearing this, and looked at him in great
surprise.

'--And so you were, too,' said Mr Tappertit, pushing him away with a
condescending playfulness. 'When did MY eyes ever deceive--unless it was
a young woman! Don't you know me now?'

'Why it an't--' Hugh faltered.

'An't it?' said Mr Tappertit. 'Are you sure of that? You remember G.
Varden, don't you?'

Certainly Hugh did, and he remembered D. Varden too; but that he didn't
tell him.

'You remember coming down there, before I was out of my time, to ask
after a vagabond that had bolted off, and left his disconsolate father a
prey to the bitterest emotions, and all the rest of it--don't you?' said
Mr Tappertit.

'Of course I do!' cried Hugh. 'And I saw you there.'

'Saw me there!' said Mr Tappertit. 'Yes, I should think you did see
me there. The place would be troubled to go on without me. Don't you
remember my thinking you liked the vagabond, and on that account going
to quarrel with you; and then finding you detested him worse than
poison, going to drink with you? Don't you remember that?'

'To be sure!' cried Hugh.

'Well! and are you in the same mind now?' said Mr Tappertit.

'Yes!' roared Hugh.

'You speak like a man,' said Mr Tappertit, 'and I'll shake hands with
you.' With these conciliatory expressions he suited the action