e wall, to assure
himself that it was real; and to exult in its being so strong, and
rough, and cold. It was not until he turned his back upon the jail, and
glanced along the empty streets, so lifeless and quiet in the bright
morning, that he felt the weight upon his heart; that he knew he was
tortured by anxiety for those he had left at home; and that home itself
was but another bead in the long rosary of his regrets.



Chapter 62


The prisoner, left to himself, sat down upon his bedstead: and resting
his elbows on his knees, and his chin upon his hands, remained in
that attitude for hours. It would be hard to say, of what nature his
reflections were. They had no distinctness, and, saving for some
flashes now and then, no reference to his condition or the train of
circumstances by which it had been brought about. The cracks in the
pavement of his cell, the chinks in the wall where stone was joined
to stone, the bars in the window, the iron ring upon the floor,--such
things as these, subsiding strangely into one another, and awakening an
indescribable kind of interest and amusement, engrossed his whole mind;
and although at the bottom of his every thought there was an uneasy
sense of guilt, and dread of death, he felt no more than that vague
consciousness of it, which a sleeper has of pain. It pursues him through
his dreams, gnaws at the heart of all his fancied pleasures, robs the
banquet of its taste, music of its sweetness, makes happiness itself
unhappy, and yet is no bodily sensation, but a phantom without shape,
or form, or visible presence; pervading everything, but having no
existence; recognisable everywhere, but nowhere seen, or touched, or met
with face to face, until the sleep is past, and waking agony returns.

After a long time the door of his cell opened. He looked up; saw the
blind man enter; and relapsed into his former position.

Guided by his breathing, the visitor advanced to where he sat; and
stopping beside him, and stretching out his hand to assure himself that
he was right, remained, for a good space, silent.

'This is bad, Rudge. This is bad,' he said at length.

The prisoner shuffled with his feet upon the ground in turning his body
from him, but made no other answer.

'How were you taken?' he asked. 'And where? You never told me more than
half your secret. No matter; I know it now. How was it, and where, eh?'
he asked again, coming still nearer to him.

'At Chigwell,' said the other.

'At Chigwell! How came you there?'

'Because I went there to avoid the man I stumbled on,' he answered.
'Because I was chased and driven there, by him and Fate. Because I was
urged to go there, by something stronger than my own will. When I found
him watching in the house she used to live in, night after night, I knew
I never could escape him--never! and when I heard the Bell--'

He shivered; muttered that it was very cold; paced quickly up and down
the narrow cell; and sitting down again, fell into his old posture.

'You were saying,' said the blind man, after another pause, 'that when
you heard the Bell--'

'Let it be, will you?' he retorted in a hurried voice. 'It hangs there
yet.'

The blind man turned a wistful and inquisitive face towards him, but he
continued to speak, without noticing him.

'I went to Chigwell, in search of the mob. I have been so hunted and
beset by this man, that I knew my only hope of safety lay in joining
them. They had gone on before; I followed them when it left off.'

'When what left off?'

'The Bell. They had quitted the place. I hoped that some of them might
be still lingering among the ruins, and was searching for them when
I heard--' he drew a long breath, and wiped his forehead with his
sleeve--'his voice.'

'Saying what?'

'No matter what. I don't know. I was then at the foot of the turret,
where I did the--'

'Ay,' said the blind man, nodding his head with perfect composure, 'I
understand.'

'I climbed the stair, or so much of it as was left; meaning to hide till
he had gone. But he heard me; and followed almost as soon as I set foot
upon the ashes.'

'You might have hidden in the wall, and thrown him down, or stabbed
him,' said the blind man.

'Might I? Between that man and me, was one who led him on--I saw it,
though he did not--and raised above his head a bloody hand. It was in
the room above that HE and I stood glaring at each other on the night of
the murder, and before he fell he raised his hand like that, and fixed
his eyes on me. I knew the chase would end there.'

'You have a strong fancy,' said the blind man, with a smile.

'Strengthen yours with blood, and see what it will come to.'

He groaned, and rocked himself, and looking up for the first time, said,
in a low, hollow voice:

'Eight-and-twenty years! Eight-and-twenty years! He has never changed
in all that time, never grown older, nor altered in the least degree.
He has been before me in the dark night, and the broad sunny day; in the
twilight, the moonlight, the sunlight, the light of fire, and lamp,
and candle; and in the deepest gloom. Always the same! In company, in
solitude, on land, on shipboard; sometimes 