 stationed him, and walking between that dangerous
companion and the hangman, went Barnaby; as many a man among the
thousands who looked on that day afterwards remembered well. Forgetful
of all other things in the ecstasy of the moment, his face flushed and
his eyes sparkling with delight, heedless of the weight of the great
banner he carried, and mindful only of its flashing in the sun and
rustling in the summer breeze, on he went, proud, happy, elated past
all telling:--the only light-hearted, undesigning creature, in the whole
assembly.

'What do you think of this?' asked Hugh, as they passed through the
crowded streets, and looked up at the windows which were thronged with
spectators. 'They have all turned out to see our flags and streamers?
Eh, Barnaby? Why, Barnaby's the greatest man of all the pack! His flag's
the largest of the lot, the brightest too. There's nothing in the show,
like Barnaby. All eyes are turned on him. Ha ha ha!'

'Don't make that din, brother,' growled the hangman, glancing with
no very approving eyes at Barnaby as he spoke: 'I hope he don't think
there's nothing to be done, but carrying that there piece of blue rag,
like a boy at a breaking up. You're ready for action I hope, eh? You, I
mean,' he added, nudging Barnaby roughly with his elbow. 'What are you
staring at? Why don't you speak?'

Barnaby had been gazing at his flag, and looked vacantly from his
questioner to Hugh.

'He don't understand your way,' said the latter. 'Here, I'll explain it
to him. Barnaby old boy, attend to me.'

'I'll attend,' said Barnaby, looking anxiously round; 'but I wish I
could see her somewhere.'

'See who?' demanded Dennis in a gruff tone. 'You an't in love I hope,
brother? That an't the sort of thing for us, you know. We mustn't have
no love here.'

'She would be proud indeed to see me now, eh Hugh?' said Barnaby.
'Wouldn't it make her glad to see me at the head of this large show?
She'd cry for joy, I know she would. Where CAN she be? She never sees me
at my best, and what do I care to be gay and fine if SHE'S not by?'

'Why, what palaver's this?' asked Mr Dennis with supreme disdain. 'We
an't got no sentimental members among us, I hope.'

'Don't be uneasy, brother,' cried Hugh, 'he's only talking of his
mother.'

'Of his what?' said Mr Dennis with a strong oath.

'His mother.'

'And have I combined myself with this here section, and turned out on
this here memorable day, to hear men talk about their mothers!' growled
Mr Dennis with extreme disgust. 'The notion of a man's sweetheart's bad
enough, but a man's mother!'--and here his disgust was so extreme that
he spat upon the ground, and could say no more.

'Barnaby's right,' cried Hugh with a grin, 'and I say it. Lookee, bold
lad. If she's not here to see, it's because I've provided for her, and
sent half-a-dozen gentlemen, every one of 'em with a blue flag (but not
half as fine as yours), to take her, in state, to a grand house all
hung round with gold and silver banners, and everything else you please,
where she'll wait till you come, and want for nothing.'

'Ay!' said Barnaby, his face beaming with delight: 'have you indeed?
That's a good hearing. That's fine! Kind Hugh!'

'But nothing to what will come, bless you,' retorted Hugh, with a
wink at Dennis, who regarded his new companion in arms with great
astonishment.

'No, indeed?' cried Barnaby.

'Nothing at all,' said Hugh. 'Money, cocked hats and feathers, red coats
and gold lace; all the fine things there are, ever were, or will be;
will belong to us if we are true to that noble gentleman--the best man
in the world--carry our flags for a few days, and keep 'em safe. That's
all we've got to do.'

'Is that all?' cried Barnaby with glistening eyes, as he clutched his
pole the tighter; 'I warrant you I keep this one safe, then. You have
put it in good hands. You know me, Hugh. Nobody shall wrest this flag
away.'

'Well said!' cried Hugh. 'Ha ha! Nobly said! That's the old stout
Barnaby, that I have climbed and leaped with, many and many a day--I
knew I was not mistaken in Barnaby.--Don't you see, man,' he added in
a whisper, as he slipped to the other side of Dennis, 'that the lad's a
natural, and can be got to do anything, if you take him the right way?
Letting alone the fun he is, he's worth a dozen men, in earnest, as
you'd find if you tried a fall with him. Leave him to me. You shall soon
see whether he's of use or not.'

Mr Dennis received these explanatory remarks with many nods and winks,
and softened his behaviour towards Barnaby from that moment. Hugh,
laying his finger on his nose, stepped back into his former place, and
they proceeded in silence.

It was between two and three o'clock in the afternoon when the three
great parties met at Westminster, and, uniting into one huge mass,
raised a tremendous shout. This was not only done in token of their
presence, but as a signal to those on whom the task devolved, that it
was time to take possession of the lobbies of both Houses, and of
the various avenues of approach, and of the gallery stairs. To the
last-named place, Hugh and Dennis, still with their 