ed Hugh with another laugh, 'our noble
captain and I, have planned for to-morrow a roaring expedition, with
good profit in it.'

'Again the Papists?' asked Dennis, rubbing his hands.

'Ay, against the Papists--against one of 'em at least, that some of us,
and I for one, owe a good heavy grudge to.'

'Not Muster Gashford's friend that he spoke to us about in my house,
eh?' said Dennis, brimfull of pleasant expectation.

'The same man,' said Hugh.

'That's your sort,' cried Mr Dennis, gaily shaking hands with him,
'that's the kind of game. Let's have revenges and injuries, and all
that, and we shall get on twice as fast. Now you talk, indeed!'

'Ha ha ha! The captain,' added Hugh, 'has thoughts of carrying off a
woman in the bustle, and--ha ha ha!--and so have I!'

Mr Dennis received this part of the scheme with a wry face, observing
that as a general principle he objected to women altogether, as being
unsafe and slippery persons on whom there was no calculating with any
certainty, and who were never in the same mind for four-and-twenty hours
at a stretch. He might have expatiated on this suggestive theme at
much greater length, but that it occurred to him to ask what connection
existed between the proposed expedition and Barnaby's being posted at
the stable-door as sentry; to which Hugh cautiously replied in these
words:

'Why, the people we mean to visit, were friends of his, once upon a
time, and I know that much of him to feel pretty sure that if he thought
we were going to do them any harm, he'd be no friend to our side, but
would lend a ready hand to the other. So I've persuaded him (for I know
him of old) that Lord George has picked him out to guard this place
to-morrow while we're away, and that it's a great honour--and so he's on
duty now, and as proud of it as if he was a general. Ha ha! What do you
say to me for a careful man as well as a devil of a one?'

Mr Dennis exhausted himself in compliments, and then added,

'But about the expedition itself--'

'About that,' said Hugh, 'you shall hear all particulars from me and
the great captain conjointly and both together--for see, he's waking up.
Rouse yourself, lion-heart. Ha ha! Put a good face upon it, and drink
again. Another hair of the dog that bit you, captain! Call for
drink! There's enough of gold and silver cups and candlesticks buried
underneath my bed,' he added, rolling back the straw, and pointing to
where the ground was newly turned, 'to pay for it, if it was a score of
casks full. Drink, captain!'

Mr Tappertit received these jovial promptings with a very bad grace,
being much the worse, both in mind and body, for his two nights of
debauch, and but indifferently able to stand upon his legs. With Hugh's
assistance, however, he contrived to stagger to the pump; and having
refreshed himself with an abundant draught of cold water, and a copious
shower of the same refreshing liquid on his head and face, he ordered
some rum and milk to be served; and upon that innocent beverage and some
biscuits and cheese made a pretty hearty meal. That done, he disposed
himself in an easy attitude on the ground beside his two companions (who
were carousing after their own tastes), and proceeded to enlighten Mr
Dennis in reference to to-morrow's project.

That their conversation was an interesting one, was rendered manifest by
its length, and by the close attention of all three. That it was not
of an oppressively grave character, but was enlivened by various
pleasantries arising out of the subject, was clear from their loud and
frequent roars of laughter, which startled Barnaby on his post, and made
him wonder at their levity. But he was not summoned to join them, until
they had eaten, and drunk, and slept, and talked together for some
hours; not, indeed, until the twilight; when they informed him that they
were about to make a slight demonstration in the streets--just to keep
the people's hands in, as it was Sunday night, and the public might
otherwise be disappointed--and that he was free to accompany them if he
would.

Without the slightest preparation, saving that they carried clubs and
wore the blue cockade, they sallied out into the streets; and, with no
more settled design than that of doing as much mischief as they could,
paraded them at random. Their numbers rapidly increasing, they soon
divided into parties; and agreeing to meet by-and-by, in the fields
near Welbeck Street, scoured the town in various directions. The largest
body, and that which augmented with the greatest rapidity, was the
one to which Hugh and Barnaby belonged. This took its way towards
Moorfields, where there was a rich chapel, and in which neighbourhood
several Catholic families were known to reside.

Beginning with the private houses so occupied, they broke open the doors
and windows; and while they destroyed the furniture and left but the
bare walls, made a sharp search for tools and engines of destruction,
such as hammers, pokers, axes, saws, and such like instruments. Many of
the rioters made belts of cord, of handkerchiefs, or any material they
found at hand, and wore these weapons as openly