ly was; and I saw that one blind girl, who
(being for the time deprived of the use of her limbs, by illness) sat
close beside me with her face towards them, wept silently the while she
listened.

It is strange to watch the faces of the blind, and see how free they are
from all concealment of what is passing in their thoughts; observing
which, a man with eyes may blush to contemplate the mask he wears.
Allowing for one shade of anxious expression which is never absent from
their countenances, and the like of which we may readily detect in our
own faces if we try to feel our way in the dark, every idea, as it rises
within them, is expressed with the lightning’s speed and nature’s truth.
If the company at a rout, or drawing-room at court, could only for one
time be as unconscious of the eyes upon them as blind men and women are,
what secrets would come out, and what a worker of hypocrisy this sight,
the loss of which we so much pity, would appear to be!

The thought occurred to me as I sat down in another room, before a girl,
blind, deaf, and dumb; destitute of smell; and nearly so of taste: before
a fair young creature with every human faculty, and hope, and power of
goodness and affection, inclosed within her delicate frame, and but one
outward sense—the sense of touch.  There she was, before me; built up, as
it were, in a marble cell, impervious to any ray of light, or particle of
sound; with her poor white hand peeping through a chink in the wall,
beckoning to some good man for help, that an Immortal soul might be
awakened.

Long before I looked upon her, the help had come.  Her face was radiant
with intelligence and pleasure.  Her hair, braided by her own hands, was
bound about a head, whose intellectual capacity and development were
beautifully expressed in its graceful outline, and its broad open brow;
her dress, arranged by herself, was a pattern of neatness and simplicity;
the work she had knitted, lay beside her; her writing-book was on the
desk she leaned upon.—From the mournful ruin of such bereavement, there
had slowly risen up this gentle, tender, guileless, grateful-hearted
being.

Like other inmates of that house, she had a green ribbon bound round her
eyelids.  A doll she had dressed lay near upon the ground.  I took it up,
and saw that she had made a green fillet such as she wore herself, and
fastened it about its mimic eyes.

She was seated in a little enclosure, made by school-desks and forms,
writing her daily journal.  But soon finishing this pursuit, she engaged
in an animated conversation with a teacher who sat beside her.  This was
a favourite mistress with the poor pupil.  If she could see the face of
her fair instructress, she would not love her less, I am sure.

I have extracted a few disjointed fragments of her history, from an
account, written by that one man who has made her what she is.  It is a
very beautiful and touching narrative; and I wish I could present it
entire.

Her name is Laura Bridgman.  ‘She was born in Hanover, New Hampshire, on
the twenty-first of December, 1829.  She is described as having been a
very sprightly and pretty infant, with bright blue eyes.  She was,
however, so puny and feeble until she was a year and a half old, that her
parents hardly hoped to rear her.  She was subject to severe fits, which
seemed to rack her frame almost beyond her power of endurance: and life
was held by the feeblest tenure: but when a year and a half old, she
seemed to rally; the dangerous symptoms subsided; and at twenty months
old, she was perfectly well.

‘Then her mental powers, hitherto stinted in their growth, rapidly
developed themselves; and during the four months of health which she
enjoyed, she appears (making due allowance for a fond mother’s account)
to have displayed a considerable degree of intelligence.

‘But suddenly she sickened again; her disease raged with great violence
during five weeks, when her eyes and ears were inflamed, suppurated, and
their contents were discharged.  But though sight and hearing were gone
for ever, the poor child’s sufferings were not ended.  The fever raged
during seven weeks; for five months she was kept in bed in a darkened
room; it was a year before she could walk unsupported, and two years
before she could sit up all day.  It was now observed that her sense of
smell was almost entirely destroyed; and, consequently, that her taste
was much blunted.

‘It was not until four years of age that the poor child’s bodily health
seemed restored, and she was able to enter upon her apprenticeship of
life and the world.

‘But what a situation was hers!  The darkness and the silence of the tomb
were around her: no mother’s smile called forth her answering smile, no
father’s voice taught her to imitate his sounds:—they, brothers and
sisters, were but forms of matter which resisted her touch, but which
differed not from the furniture of the house, save in warmth, and in the
power of locomotion; and not even in these respects from the dog and the
cat.

‘But the immortal spirit which had been implanted within her could not
die, nor be maimed nor mutilated; and tho