ce before the mayor, the
exposure of "Captain FitzMarshall"--a notable business altogether.  What
a revelation in open court!  Conceive Miss Witherfield called to depose
to Mr. Pickwick's midnight invasion.  Mr. Pickwick himself might have
been called and put on the rack, this incident not concerning his breach
of promise.  And supposing that the ubiquitous Jingle had heard of this
business and had gone to the solicitor's office to volunteer evidence,
and most useful evidence it would have been--to wit that Mr. Pickwick had
been caught in the garden of a young ladies' school and had alarmed the
house by his attempts to gain admission in the small hours!  Jingle of
course, could not be permitted to testify to this, but he could put the
firm on the track.  Mr. Pickwick's reputation could hardly have survived
these two revelations, and sweeping damages to the full amount would have
been the certain result.

This extraordinary adventure of Mr. Pickwick's at the Great White Horse
Inn, Ipswich, verifies Dodson's casual remark to him, that "he was either
a very designing or a most unfortunate man," circumstances being so
strong against him.  As the story was brought out, in open court, owing
to the joint indiscretion of Phunky and Winkle, it will be best, in
justice to Mr. Pickwick, to give practically his account of the affair.

    'Nobody sleeps in the other bed, of course,' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Oh no, sir.'

    'Very good.  Tell my servant to bring me up some hot water at
    half-past eight in the morning, and that I shall not want him any
    more to-night.'

    'Yes, sir.'

    And bidding Mr. Pickwick good-night, the chambermaid retired, and
    left him alone.

    Mr. Pickwick sat himself down in a chair before the fire, and fell
    into a train of rambling meditations.  First he thought of his
    friends, and wondered when they would join him; _then his mind
    reverted to Mrs. Martha Bardell_; and from that lady it wandered, by
    a natural process, to the dingy counting-house of Dodson and Fogg.
    From Dodson and Fogg's it flew off at tangent, to the very centre of
    the history of the queer client; and then it came back to the Great
    White Horse at Ipswich, with sufficient clearness to convince Mr.
    Pickwick that he was falling asleep: so he aroused himself, and began
    to undress, when he recollected he had left his watch on the table
    down stairs.  So as it was pretty late now, and he was unwilling to
    ring his bell at that hour of the night, he slipped on his coat, of
    which he had just divested himself, and taking the japanned
    candlestick in his hand, walked quietly down stairs.

    The more stairs Mr. Pickwick went down, the more stairs there seemed
    to be to descend, and again and again, when Mr. Pickwick got into
    some narrow passage, and began to congratulate himself on having
    gained the ground-floor, did another flight of stairs appear before
    his astonished eyes.  At last he reached a stone hall, which he
    remembered to have seen when he entered the house.  Passage after
    passage did he explore; room after room did he peep into; at length,
    just as he was on the point of giving up the search in despair, he
    opened the door of the identical room in which he had spent the
    evening, and beheld his missing property on the table.

    Mr. Pickwick seized the watch in triumph, and proceeded to retrace
    his steps to his bed-chamber.  If his progress downwards had been
    attended with difficulties and uncertainty, his journey back, was
    infinitely more perplexing.  Rows of doors, garnished with boots of
    every shape, make, and size, branched off in every possible
    direction.  A dozen times did he softly turn the handle of some
    bedroom door, which resembled his own, when a gruff cry from within
    of "Who the devil's that?" or "What do want here?" caused him to
    steal away on tiptoe, with a perfectly marvellous celerity.  He was
    reduced to the verge of despair, when an open door attracted his
    attention.  He peeped in--right at last.  There were the two beds,
    whose situation he perfectly remembered, and the fire still burning.
    His candle, not a long one when he first received it, had flickered
    away in the drafts of air through which he had passed, and sunk into
    the socket, just as he had closed the door after him.  'No matter,'
    said Mr. Pickwick, 'I can undress myself just as well by the light of
    the fire.'

    The bedsteads stood, one each side of the door; and on the inner side
    of each, was a little path, terminating in a rush-bottomed chair,
    just wide enough to admit of a person's getting into, or out of bed,
    on that side if he or she thought proper.  Having carefully drawn the
    curtains of his bed on the outside, Mr. Pickwick sat down on the
    rush-bottomed chair, and leisurely divested himself of his shoes and
    gaiters.  He then took off and folded up, his coat, waistcoat, and
    neck-cloth, and slowly drawing on his tasseled night-cap, secured it
    firmly on his head, by t