 The manoeuvre succeeded
so well that Gabriel only made a wry face, and with the warning he had
just had, fresh in his mind, did not dare to say one word.

The difference ended, therefore, in Miggs being presented with a gown
by Mrs Varden and half-a-crown by Dolly, as if she had eminently
distinguished herself in the paths of morality and goodness. Mrs V.,
according to custom, expressed her hope that Varden would take a lesson
from what had passed and learn more generous conduct for the time to
come; and the dinner being now cold and nobody's appetite very much
improved by what had passed, they went on with it, as Mrs Varden said,
'like Christians.'

As there was to be a grand parade of the Royal East London Volunteers
that afternoon, the locksmith did no more work; but sat down comfortably
with his pipe in his mouth, and his arm round his pretty daughter's
waist, looking lovingly on Mrs V., from time to time, and exhibiting
from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, one smiling surface
of good humour. And to be sure, when it was time to dress him in his
regimentals, and Dolly, hanging about him in all kinds of graceful
winning ways, helped to button and buckle and brush him up and get him
into one of the tightest coats that ever was made by mortal tailor, he
was the proudest father in all England.

'What a handy jade it is!' said the locksmith to Mrs Varden, who stood
by with folded hands--rather proud of her husband too--while Miggs held
his cap and sword at arm's length, as if mistrusting that the latter
might run some one through the body of its own accord; 'but never marry
a soldier, Doll, my dear.'

Dolly didn't ask why not, or say a word, indeed, but stooped her head
down very low to tie his sash.

'I never wear this dress,' said honest Gabriel, 'but I think of poor Joe
Willet. I loved Joe; he was always a favourite of mine. Poor Joe!--Dear
heart, my girl, don't tie me in so tight.'

Dolly laughed--not like herself at all--the strangest little laugh that
could be--and held her head down lower still.

'Poor Joe!' resumed the locksmith, muttering to himself; 'I always wish
he had come to me. I might have made it up between them, if he had. Ah!
old John made a great mistake in his way of acting by that lad--a great
mistake.--Have you nearly tied that sash, my dear?'

What an ill-made sash it was! There it was, loose again and trailing
on the ground. Dolly was obliged to kneel down, and recommence at the
beginning.

'Never mind young Willet, Varden,' said his wife frowning; 'you might
find some one more deserving to talk about, I think.'

Miss Miggs gave a great sniff to the same effect.

'Nay, Martha,' cried the locksmith, 'don't let us bear too hard upon
him. If the lad is dead indeed, we'll deal kindly by his memory.'

'A runaway and a vagabond!' said Mrs Varden.

Miss Miggs expressed her concurrence as before.

'A runaway, my dear, but not a vagabond,' returned the locksmith in
a gentle tone. 'He behaved himself well, did Joe--always--and was a
handsome, manly fellow. Don't call him a vagabond, Martha.'

Mrs Varden coughed--and so did Miggs.

'He tried hard to gain your good opinion, Martha, I can tell you,' said
the locksmith smiling, and stroking his chin. 'Ah! that he did. It seems
but yesterday that he followed me out to the Maypole door one night, and
begged me not to say how like a boy they used him--say here, at home, he
meant, though at the time, I recollect, I didn't understand. "And how's
Miss Dolly, sir?" says Joe,' pursued the locksmith, musing sorrowfully,
'Ah! Poor Joe!'

'Well, I declare,' cried Miggs. 'Oh! Goodness gracious me!'

'What's the matter now?' said Gabriel, turning sharply to her, 'Why, if
here an't Miss Dolly,' said the handmaid, stooping down to look into her
face, 'a-giving way to floods of tears. Oh mim! oh sir. Raly it's give
me such a turn,' cried the susceptible damsel, pressing her hand upon
her side to quell the palpitation of her heart, 'that you might knock me
down with a feather.'

The locksmith, after glancing at Miss Miggs as if he could have wished
to have a feather brought straightway, looked on with a broad stare
while Dolly hurried away, followed by that sympathising young woman:
then turning to his wife, stammered out, 'Is Dolly ill? Have I done
anything? Is it my fault?'

'Your fault!' cried Mrs V. reproachfully. 'There--you had better make
haste out.'

'What have I done?' said poor Gabriel. 'It was agreed that Mr Edward's
name was never to be mentioned, and I have not spoken of him, have I?'

Mrs Varden merely replied that she had no patience with him, and bounced
off after the other two. The unfortunate locksmith wound his sash about
him, girded on his sword, put on his cap, and walked out.

'I am not much of a dab at my exercise,' he said under his breath, 'but
I shall get into fewer scrapes at that work than at this. Every man came
into the world for something; my department seems to be to make every
woman cry without meaning it. It's rather hard!'

But he forgot it before he reached the end of the street, and went on
with a shining face, nodding to the neig