ad brought in the Catholic
bill. All accounts agreed that the mob were out, in stronger numbers
and more numerous parties than had yet appeared; that the streets were
unsafe; that no man's house or life was worth an hour's purchase; that
the public consternation was increasing every moment; and that many
families had already fled the city. One fellow who wore the popular
colour, damned them for not having cockades in their hats, and bade them
set a good watch to-morrow night upon their prison doors, for the locks
would have a straining; another asked if they were fire-proof, that
they walked abroad without the distinguishing mark of all good and true
men;--and a third who rode on horseback, and was quite alone, ordered
them to throw each man a shilling, in his hat, towards the support of
the rioters. Although they were afraid to refuse compliance with this
demand, and were much alarmed by these reports, they agreed, having come
so far, to go forward, and see the real state of things with their own
eyes. So they pushed on quicker, as men do who are excited by portentous
news; and ruminating on what they had heard, spoke little to each other.

It was now night, and as they came nearer to the city they had dismal
confirmation of this intelligence in three great fires, all close
together, which burnt fiercely and were gloomily reflected in the sky.
Arriving in the immediate suburbs, they found that almost every house
had chalked upon its door in large characters 'No Popery,' that the
shops were shut, and that alarm and anxiety were depicted in every face
they passed.

Noting these things with a degree of apprehension which neither of the
three cared to impart, in its full extent, to his companions, they
came to a turnpike-gate, which was shut. They were passing through the
turnstile on the path, when a horseman rode up from London at a hard
gallop, and called to the toll-keeper in a voice of great agitation, to
open quickly in the name of God.

The adjuration was so earnest and vehement, that the man, with a lantern
in his hand, came running out--toll-keeper though he was--and was about
to throw the gate open, when happening to look behind him, he exclaimed,
'Good Heaven, what's that! Another fire!'

At this, the three turned their heads, and saw in the distance--straight
in the direction whence they had come--a broad sheet of flame, casting
a threatening light upon the clouds, which glimmered as though the
conflagration were behind them, and showed like a wrathful sunset.

'My mind misgives me,' said the horseman, 'or I know from what far
building those flames come. Don't stand aghast, my good fellow. Open the
gate!'

'Sir,' cried the man, laying his hand upon his horse's bridle as he let
him through: 'I know you now, sir; be advised by me; do not go on. I saw
them pass, and know what kind of men they are. You will be murdered.'

'So be it!' said the horseman, looking intently towards the fire, and
not at him who spoke.

'But sir--sir,' cried the man, grasping at his rein more tightly yet,
'if you do go on, wear the blue riband. Here, sir,' he added, taking one
from his own hat, 'it's necessity, not choice, that makes me wear it;
it's love of life and home, sir. Wear it for this one night, sir; only
for this one night.'

'Do!' cried the three friends, pressing round his horse. 'Mr
Haredale--worthy sir--good gentleman--pray be persuaded.'

'Who's that?' cried Mr Haredale, stooping down to look. 'Did I hear
Daisy's voice?'

'You did, sir,' cried the little man. 'Do be persuaded, sir. This
gentleman says very true. Your life may hang upon it.'

'Are you,' said Mr Haredale abruptly, 'afraid to come with me?'

'I, sir?--N-n-no.'

'Put that riband in your hat. If we meet the rioters, swear that I took
you prisoner for wearing it. I will tell them so with my own lips; for
as I hope for mercy when I die, I will take no quarter from them, nor
shall they have quarter from me, if we come hand to hand to-night.
Up here--behind me--quick! Clasp me tight round the body, and fear
nothing.'

In an instant they were riding away, at full gallop, in a dense cloud of
dust, and speeding on, like hunters in a dream.

It was well the good horse knew the road he traversed, for never
once--no, never once in all the journey--did Mr Haredale cast his eyes
upon the ground, or turn them, for an instant, from the light towards
which they sped so madly. Once he said in a low voice, 'It is my house,'
but that was the only time he spoke. When they came to dark and doubtful
places, he never forgot to put his hand upon the little man to hold him
more securely in his seat, but he kept his head erect and his eyes fixed
on the fire, then, and always.

The road was dangerous enough, for they went the nearest
way--headlong--far from the highway--by lonely lanes and paths, where
waggon-wheels had worn deep ruts; where hedge and ditch hemmed in
the narrow strip of ground; and tall trees, arching overhead, made it
profoundly dark. But on, on, on, with neither stop nor stumble, till
they reached the Maypole door, and could plainly see that the fire began
to fade, as if f