grotesque light.

Boz had been a sort of general reporter on the _Chronicle_: he "took"
everything.  He had reported at police courts as well as at the law
courts.  His quick and bright intelligence seized the humours here, as it
did those of the street.  He later reported in the Gallery, and was
dispatched across country in post-chaises to "take" eminent political
speakers--always winning the hearty commendation of his employers for his
zeal and energy.




THE CAUSE OF ACTION.


Mr. Pickwick was a well-to-do bachelor, who lived by himself near the
city, where he had been in trade.  His age was about fifty, as can be
accurately calculated by his remark on the sliding at Manor Farm.  "I
used to do so on the gutters when I was a boy . . . but I hav'nt done
such a thing these thirty years."  This was said in 1828.  He resided in
Goswell Street--now Goswell Road--with a widow lady, whose husband had
been in the Excise.  He cannot have paid more than a pound a week, if so
much, for two rooms on the first floor.  There was no servant, and the
hardworking landlady, Mrs. Martha Bardell, performed all the duties of
her household single-handed.  As her Counsel later described it,--and see
all she did for him!--"She waited on him, attended to his comforts,
cooked his meals, looked out his linen for the washer-woman when it went
abroad, darned, aired, and prepared it for his wear when it came home,
and, in short, enjoyed his fullest trust and confidence."  Thus Sergeant
Buzfuz, duly "instructed."  Not only was there Mr. Pickwick, but there
was another lodger, and her little boy Tommy.  The worthy woman took care
of and looked after all three.  This might incline us to take a favorable
view of her.  She regarded her lodger with feelings of veneration and
attachment, of which proof is found in her later talk with Sam.  To him
she said that "he had always behaved himself like a perfect gentlemen,"
and then added this significant speech: "It's a terrible thing to be
dragged in this way before the public, but _I now see_ that it's the only
thing that I ought to do."  That is, she seems to have held out as long
as possible, believing that her amiable lodger would act as a perfect
gentlemen and like himself.  But when she found that even an action had
no terrors for him, she saw that there was nothing else to do but to let
the action go on.

And what was Mrs. Bardell like?  One would imagine her a plump, buxom
widow, "fat, fair, and forty," with her dear little boy, "the only pledge
of her deceased exciseman," or say something between thirty and forty
years old.  Fortunately, two portraits have come down to us of the
lady--one somewhat of this pattern, and depicting her, as she flung
herself on Mr. Pickwick on that disastrous morning: the other--a swollen,
dreadful thing, which must be a caricature of the literal presentment.
Here we see a woman of gross, enormous proportions seated on the front
bench and apparently weighing some thirteen or fourteen stone, with a
vast coarse face.  This is surely an unfair presentment of the worthy
landlady; besides, Dodson and Fogg were too astute practitioners to
imperil their chances by exhibiting to his Lordship and the Jury so
ill-favoured a plaintiff.  Indeed, we are told that they arranged a
rather theatrical exhibition in this scene, with a view of creating an
impression in their favour.

Many find pleasure in reading the Bookseller's Catalogues, and a vast
number are showered on me in the course of the year.  But on one of these
I always gaze with a special interest, and even tenderness.  For it comes
from one Herbert, who lives in Goswell Road.  Only think, _Goswell_
Road--erst Goswell Street, where just seventy years ago Mrs. Bardell was
letting lodgings and Mr. Pickwick himself was lodging: and on the cover I
read, furthur attraction, "Goswell Road, near the 'Angel,'" whence the
"stage" which took the party to the "Spaniard" at Hampstead started!
Sometimes I am drawn to the shop, crowded with books; but one's thoughts
stray away from the books into speculations as to _which_ house it was.
But the indications are most vague, though the eye settles on a decent
range of shabby-looking faded tenements--two storeys high only--and which
_look_ like lodging houses.  Some ingenious commentators have indeed
ventured to identify the house itself, arguing from the very general
description in the text.

We should note, however, Mr. Pickwick's lack of caution.  He came in the
very next day, having apparently made no enquiries as to the landlady.
Had he done so, he would have learned of the drunken exciseman who met
his death by being knocked on the head with a quart pot.  He might have
heard of the friends, Cluppins, Raddle, etc., who seemed to have been
charwomen or something of the sort; also that there was a sort of working
man as a fellow lodger.  Above all, that there was no servant in the
house.  All which boded ill, and made it likely that Mr. Pickwick would
be the easy victim of some crafty scheme.

All went well until the unluckly morning in July, 1827, when Mr.
Pickwick's friends, coming to pay a mo