 impress the fact
    more strongly on the observation of the spectators.

One of the happiest descriptions is surely that of the binding of law
books.  A law library is the most repulsive and uninteresting thing in
the world.  The colour of the leather is unhealthy and disagreeable, and
the necessary shading is secured at the expense of grace.  Boz
characterises it as 'that under-done pie crust.'

    Other gentlemen, who had no briefs to show, carried under their arms
    goodly octavos, with a red label behind, and that
    under-done-pie-crust-coloured cover, which is technically known as
    "law calf."  Others, who had neither briefs nor books, thrust their
    hands into their pockets, and looked as wise as they conveniently
    could; while others, again, moved here and there with great
    restlessness and earnestness of manner, content to awaken thereby the
    admiration and astonishment of the uninitiated stranger.  The whole,
    to the great wonderment of Mr. Pickwick, were divided into little
    groups, who were chatting and discussing the news of the day in the
    most unfeeling manner possible--just as if no trial at all were
    coming on.

    A bow from Mr. Phunky, as he entered, and took his seat behind the
    row appropriated to the King's Counsel, attracted Mr. Pickwick's
    attention; and he had scarcely returned it, when Mr. Serjeant Snubbin
    appeared, followed by Mr. Mallard, who half hid the Serjeant behind a
    large crimson bag, which he placed on his table, and after shaking
    hands with Perker, withdrew.  Then there entered two or three more
    Serjeants, and among them, one with a fat body and a red face, who
    nodded in a friendly manner to Mr. Serjeant Snubbin, and said it was
    a fine morning.

    'Who's that red-faced man, who said it was a fine morning and nodded
    to our counsel?' whispered Mr. Pickwick.

    'Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz,' replied Perker.  'He's opposed to us; he leads
    on the other side.  That gentleman behind him is Mr. Skimpin, his
    junior.'

    Mr. Pickwick was just on the point of inquiring, with great
    abhorrence of the man's cold-blooded villainy, how Mr. Serjeant
    Buzfuz, who was counsel for the opposite party, dared to presume to
    tell Mr. Serjeant Snubbin, who was counsel for him, that it was a
    fine morning,--when he was interrupted by a general rising of the
    barristers, and a loud cry of 'Silence!' from the officers of the
    court.  Looking round, he found that this was caused by the entrance
    of the Judge.

On reaching the Court, Perker said, "put Mr. Pickwick's friends in the
students' box.  Mr. Pickwick had better sit by me."  This useful
provision for the instruction of legal probationers has fallen into
desuetude--no place is reserved for the students now-a-days.  Lord
Campbell describes the custom and recalls an incident that occurred when
he was sitting in the students' box, close to the Bench.

There were some matters of procedure which have since been changed--such
as Mr. Skimpin "calling for" Winkle, and the latter answering.  This is
now done by an Officer of the Court.  Skimpin also asks Winkle his name,
as a first question, though he had been sworn and had given it.  And the
_mal-entendu_ as to "Daniel Nathaniel" could not then have occurred, as
the Officer would have obtained the name correctly.  Another unusual
thing was that Buzfuz, after his long and rather exhausting speech,
should have examined the first witness.  Now-a-days the junior would do
this.  We may note that at this time it was always "my Lord," and "your
Lordship," with the full natural sound--we had not yet got to the clipped
"M'lud,'" and "your Ludship."  Perhaps this form _was_ actually used by
the Counsel but was not noticed by Boz, or seemed to him the right thing.
The King's Counsel were behind and could stoop down to consult their
solicitors.

This minute observation and particularity of Boz is further shown in his
noting the very places where the Attorneys sat, and which he describes.
They had the seats next the table:

"You are quite right," said Buzfuz later on, answering the whisper of
Dodson and Fogg, after Sam's awkward revelation.  How often have we seen
these hasty communications, which are not without their dramatic effect.




THE JUDGE.


Mr. Pickwick, unfortunate in his Counsel, his Solicitor, his Jury--one of
prejudiced tradesmen--was also to be unlucky in the Judge who tried his
case.  No doubt Perker had comforted him: "no matter how it goes, however
unfair Buzfuz may be, we have a judge to hold the scales fair and keep
the jury straight.  The Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, the Right
Hon. Sir NICHOLAS CONYNGHAM TINDAL is a man of immense reputation at the
Bar.  We are most fortunate in having him."  Judge then of the
disappointment when on coming to court it was found that Sir Stephen
Gaselee was to take the case "owing to the absence of the Chief Justice,
occasioned by indisposition."  (I protest that at times one does not know
whether we are following out a course of real events, or tracing the
incidents of a 