lled the
little girl, and told her all about his happy home; and she told him how
her father had been drowned at sea before she came to live with her
uncle. David said he thought Mr. Peggotty must be a very good man.

"Good!" said Em'ly. "If ever I was to be a lady, I'd give him a sky-blue
coat with diamond buttons, nankeen trousers, a red velvet waistcoat, a
cocked hat, a large gold watch, a silver pipe, and a box of money!"

David was quite sorry to leave these kind people and his dear little
companion, but still he was glad to think he should get back to his own
dear mamma. When he reached home, however, he found a great change. His
mother was married to the dark man David did not like, whose name was
Mr. Murdstone, and he was a stern, hard man, who had no love for little
David, and did not allow his mother to pet and indulge him as she had
done before. Mr. Murdstone's sister came to live with them, and as she
was even more difficult to please than her brother, and disliked boys,
David's life was no longer a happy one. He had always had lessons with
his mother, and as she was patient and gentle, he had enjoyed learning
to read, but now he had a great many very hard lessons to do, and was so
frightened and shy when Mr. and Miss Murdstone were in the room, that he
did not get on at all well, and was continually in disgrace. His only
pleasure was to go up into the little room at the top of the house
where he had found a number of books that had belonged to his own
father, and he would sit and read Robinson Crusoe, and many tales of
travels and adventures.

But one day he got into sad trouble over his lessons, and Mr. Murdstone
was very angry, and took him away from his mother and beat him with a
cane. David had never been beaten in his life before, and was so
maddened by pain and rage that he bit Mr. Murdstone's hand! Now, indeed,
he had done something to deserve the punishment, and Mr. Murdstone in a
fury, beat him savagely, and left him sobbing and crying on the floor.
David was kept locked up in his room for some days, seeing no one but
Miss Murdstone, who brought him his food. At last, one night, he heard
his name whispered at the key hole.

"Is that you, Peggotty?" he asked, groping his way to the door.

"Yes, my precious Davy. Be as soft as a mouse or the cat will hear us."

David understood she meant Miss Murdstone, whose room was quite near.
"How's mamma, Peggotty dear? Is she very angry with me?" he whispered.

"No--not very," she said.

"What is going to be done with me, dear Peggotty, do you know?" asked
poor David, who had been wondering all these long, lonely days.

"School--near London--"

"When, Peggotty?"

"To-morrow," answered Peggotty.

"Shan't I see mamma?"

"Yes--morning," she said, and went on to promise David she would always
love him, and take the greatest care of his dear mamma, and write him
every week.

The next morning David saw his mother, very pale and with red eyes. He
ran to her arms and begged her to forgive him.

"Oh, Davy," she said, "that you should hurt anyone I love! I forgive
you, Davy, but it grieves me so that you should have such bad passions
in your heart. Try to be better, pray to be better."

David was very unhappy that his mother should think him so wicked, and
though she kissed him, and said, "I forgive you, my dear boy, God bless
you," he cried so bitterly when he was on his way in the carrier's
cart, that his pocket handkerchief had to be spread out on the horse's
back to dry.

After they had gone a little way the cart stopped, and Peggotty came
running up, with a parcel of cakes and a purse for David. After giving
him a good hug, she ran off.

Davy found three bright shillings in the purse, and two half-crowns
wrapped in paper on which was written, in his mother's hand--"For Davy.
With my love."

Davy shared his cakes with the carrier, who asked if Peggotty made them,
and David told him yes, she did all their cooking. The carrier looked
thoughtful, and then asked David if he would send a message to Peggotty
from him. David agreed, and the message was "Barkis is willing." While
David was waiting for the coach at Yarmouth, he wrote to Peggotty:

MY DEAR PEGGOTTY,--I have come here safe. Barkis is willing. My love to
mamma.--Yours affectionately."

"_P. S._--He says he particularly wanted you to know _Barkis is
willing_."

At Yarmouth he found dinner was ordered for him, and felt very shy at
having a table all to himself, and very much alarmed when the waiter
told him he had seen a gentleman fall down dead, after drinking some of
their beer. David said he would have some water, and was quite grateful
to the waiter for drinking the ale that had been ordered for him, for
fear the people of the hotel should be offended. He also helped David to
eat his dinner and accepted one of his bright shillings.

When they got to Salem House, as the School was called, David found that
he had been sent before the holidays were over as a punishment, and was
also to wear a placard on his back, on which was written--"Take care of
him. He bites." This made David miserable, and he dreaded the return o