ious wards in the city, on the county, and the borough of Southwark.
Both Lord Mansfield and Lord Saville, however, who had been great
sufferers, refused to accept of any compensation whatever.

The House of Commons, sitting on Tuesday with locked and guarded doors,
had passed a resolution to the effect that, as soon as the tumults
subsided, it would immediately proceed to consider the petitions
presented from many of his Majesty's Protestant subjects, and would take
the same into its serious consideration. While this question was under
debate, Mr Herbert, one of the members present, indignantly rose and
called upon the House to observe that Lord George Gordon was then
sitting under the gallery with the blue cockade, the signal of
rebellion, in his hat. He was not only obliged, by those who sat near,
to take it out; but offering to go into the street to pacify the mob
with the somewhat indefinite assurance that the House was prepared to
give them 'the satisfaction they sought,' was actually held down in his
seat by the combined force of several members. In short, the disorder
and violence which reigned triumphant out of doors, penetrated into
the senate, and there, as elsewhere, terror and alarm prevailed, and
ordinary forms were for the time forgotten.

On the Thursday, both Houses had adjourned until the following Monday
se'nnight, declaring it impossible to pursue their deliberations with
the necessary gravity and freedom, while they were surrounded by armed
troops. And now that the rioters were dispersed, the citizens were beset
with a new fear; for, finding the public thoroughfares and all their
usual places of resort filled with soldiers entrusted with the free use
of fire and sword, they began to lend a greedy ear to the rumours which
were afloat of martial law being declared, and to dismal stories of
prisoners having been seen hanging on lamp-posts in Cheapside and
Fleet Street. These terrors being promptly dispelled by a Proclamation
declaring that all the rioters in custody would be tried by a special
commission in due course of law, a fresh alarm was engendered by its
being whispered abroad that French money had been found on some of the
rioters, and that the disturbances had been fomented by foreign powers
who sought to compass the overthrow and ruin of England. This report,
which was strengthened by the diffusion of anonymous handbills, but
which, if it had any foundation at all, probably owed its origin to the
circumstance of some few coins which were not English money having been
swept into the pockets of the insurgents with other miscellaneous booty,
and afterwards discovered on the prisoners or the dead bodies,--caused
a great sensation; and men's minds being in that excited state when they
are most apt to catch at any shadow of apprehension, was bruited about
with much industry.

All remaining quiet, however, during the whole of this Friday, and on
this Friday night, and no new discoveries being made, confidence began
to be restored, and the most timid and desponding breathed again.
In Southwark, no fewer than three thousand of the inhabitants formed
themselves into a watch, and patrolled the streets every hour. Nor were
the citizens slow to follow so good an example: and it being the manner
of peaceful men to be very bold when the danger is over, they were
abundantly fierce and daring; not scrupling to question the stoutest
passenger with great severity, and carrying it with a very high hand
over all errand-boys, servant-girls, and 'prentices.

As day deepened into evening, and darkness crept into the nooks and
corners of the town as if it were mustering in secret and gathering
strength to venture into the open ways, Barnaby sat in his dungeon,
wondering at the silence, and listening in vain for the noise and outcry
which had ushered in the night of late. Beside him, with his hand in
hers, sat one in whose companionship he felt at peace. She was worn, and
altered, full of grief, and heavy-hearted; but the same to him.

'Mother,' he said, after a long silence: 'how long,--how many days and
nights,--shall I be kept here?'

'Not many, dear. I hope not many.'

'You hope! Ay, but your hoping will not undo these chains. I hope, but
they don't mind that. Grip hopes, but who cares for Grip?'

The raven gave a short, dull, melancholy croak. It said 'Nobody,' as
plainly as a croak could speak.

'Who cares for Grip, except you and me?' said Barnaby, smoothing the
bird's rumpled feathers with his hand. 'He never speaks in this place;
he never says a word in jail; he sits and mopes all day in his dark
corner, dozing sometimes, and sometimes looking at the light that creeps
in through the bars, and shines in his bright eye as if a spark from
those great fires had fallen into the room and was burning yet. But who
cares for Grip?'

The raven croaked again--Nobody.

'And by the way,' said Barnaby, withdrawing his hand from the bird, and
laying it upon his mother's arm, as he looked eagerly in her face; 'if
they kill me--they may: I heard it said they would--what will become of
Grip when I am dead?'

The sound of the word, 