Mr. B. in
    the street, _and discharged the contents of five of the barrels at
    him_: _each shot taking effect_.  Mr. B., though horribly wounded,
    and dying, returned the fire, and killed Ross on the spot.’

                     ‘_Terrible Death of Robert Potter_.

    ‘From the “Caddo Gazette,” of the 12th inst., we learn the frightful
    death of Colonel Robert Potter. . . . He was beset in his house by an
    enemy, named Rose.  He sprang from his couch, seized his gun, and, in
    his night-clothes, rushed from the house.  For about two hundred
    yards his speed seemed to defy his pursuers; but, getting entangled
    in a thicket, he was captured.  Rose told him _that he intended to
    act a generous part_, and give him a chance for his life.  He then
    told Potter he might run, and he should not be interrupted till he
    reached a certain distance.  Potter started at the word of command,
    and before a gun was fired he had reached the lake.  His first
    impulse was to jump in the water and dive for it, which he did.  Rose
    was close behind him, and formed his men on the bank ready to shoot
    him as he rose.  In a few seconds he came up to breathe; and scarce
    had his head reached the surface of the water when it was completely
    riddled with the shot of their guns, and he sunk, to rise no more!’

                            ‘_Murder in Arkansas_.

    ‘We understand _that a severe rencontre came off_ a few days since in
    the Seneca Nation, between Mr. Loose, the sub-agent of the mixed band
    of the Senecas, Quapaw, and Shawnees, and Mr. James Gillespie, of the
    mercantile firm of Thomas G. Allison and Co., of Maysville, Benton,
    County Ark, in which the latter was slain with a bowie-knife.  Some
    difficulty had for some time existed between the parties.  It is said
    that Major Gillespie brought on the attack with a cane.  A severe
    conflict ensued, during which two pistols were fired by Gillespie and
    one by Loose.  Loose then stabbed Gillespie with one of those
    never-failing weapons, a bowie-knife.  The death of Major G. is much
    regretted, as he was a liberal-minded and energetic man.  Since the
    above was in type, we have learned that Major Allison has stated to
    some of our citizens in town that Mr. Loose gave the first blow.  We
    forbear to give any particulars, as _the matter will be the subject
    of judicial investigation_.’

                                ‘_Foul Deed_.

    The steamer Thames, just from Missouri river, brought us a handbill,
    offering a reward of 500 dollars, for the person who assassinated
    Lilburn W. Baggs, late Governor of this State, at Independence, on
    the night of the 6th inst.  Governor Baggs, it is stated in a written
    memorandum, was not dead, but mortally wounded.

    ‘Since the above was written, we received a note from the clerk of
    the Thames, giving the following particulars.  Gov. Baggs was shot by
    some villain on Friday, 6th inst., in the evening, while sitting in a
    room in his own house in Independence.  His son, a boy, hearing a
    report, ran into the room, and found the Governor sitting in his
    chair, with his jaw fallen down, and his head leaning back; on
    discovering the injury done to his father, he gave the alarm.  Foot
    tracks were found in the garden below the window, and a pistol picked
    up supposed to have been overloaded, and thrown from the hand of the
    scoundrel who fired it.  Three buck shots of a heavy load, took
    effect; one going through his mouth, one into the brain, and another
    probably in or near the brain; all going into the back part of the
    neck and head.  The Governor was still alive on the morning of the
    7th; but no hopes for his recovery by his friends, and but slight
    hopes from his physicians.

    ‘A man was suspected, and the Sheriff most probably has possession of
    him by this time.

    ‘The pistol was one of a pair stolen some days previous from a baker
    in Independence, and the legal authorities have the description of
    the other.’

                                ‘_Rencontre_.

    ‘An unfortunate _affair_ took place on Friday evening in Chatres
    Street, in which one of our most respectable citizens received a
    dangerous wound, from a poignard, in the abdomen.  From the Bee (New
    Orleans) of yesterday, we learn the following particulars.  It
    appears that an article was published in the French side of the paper
    on Monday last, containing some strictures on the Artillery Battalion
    for firing their guns on Sunday morning, in answer to those from the
    Ontario and Woodbury, and thereby much alarm was caused to the
    families of those persons who were out all night preserving the peace
    of the city.  Major C. Gally, Commander of the battalion, resenting
    this, called at the office and demanded the author’s name; that of
    Mr. P. Arpin was given to him, who was absent at the time.  Some
    angry words then passed with one of the proprietors, and a challenge
    followed; the frie