 is something tangible; we throw up a
groundwork and foundation, so to speak, of goodness, on which we may
afterwards erect some worthy superstructure.'

Now, to be sure, Mrs Varden thought, here is a perfect character. Here
is a meek, righteous, thoroughgoing Christian, who, having mastered all
these qualities, so difficult of attainment; who, having dropped a pinch
of salt on the tails of all the cardinal virtues, and caught them every
one; makes light of their possession, and pants for more morality. For
the good woman never doubted (as many good men and women never do), that
this slighting kind of profession, this setting so little store by great
matters, this seeming to say, 'I am not proud, I am what you hear, but I
consider myself no better than other people; let us change the subject,
pray'--was perfectly genuine and true. He so contrived it, and said
it in that way that it appeared to have been forced from him, and its
effect was marvellous.

Aware of the impression he had made--few men were quicker than he at
such discoveries--Mr Chester followed up the blow by propounding certain
virtuous maxims, somewhat vague and general in their nature, doubtless,
and occasionally partaking of the character of truisms, worn a little
out at elbow, but delivered in so charming a voice and with such
uncommon serenity and peace of mind, that they answered as well as the
best. Nor is this to be wondered at; for as hollow vessels produce a far
more musical sound in falling than those which are substantial, so it
will oftentimes be found that sentiments which have nothing in them make
the loudest ringing in the world, and are the most relished.

Mr Chester, with the volume gently extended in one hand, and with
the other planted lightly on his breast, talked to them in the most
delicious manner possible; and quite enchanted all his hearers,
notwithstanding their conflicting interests and thoughts. Even Dolly,
who, between his keen regards and her eyeing over by Mr Tappertit, was
put quite out of countenance, could not help owning within herself that
he was the sweetest-spoken gentleman she had ever seen. Even Miss Miggs,
who was divided between admiration of Mr Chester and a mortal jealousy
of her young mistress, had sufficient leisure to be propitiated. Even
Mr Tappertit, though occupied as we have seen in gazing at his heart's
delight, could not wholly divert his thoughts from the voice of the
other charmer. Mrs Varden, to her own private thinking, had never been
so improved in all her life; and when Mr Chester, rising and craving
permission to speak with her apart, took her by the hand and led her at
arm's length upstairs to the best sitting-room, she almost deemed him
something more than human.

'Dear madam,' he said, pressing her hand delicately to his lips; 'be
seated.'

Mrs Varden called up quite a courtly air, and became seated.

'You guess my object?' said Mr Chester, drawing a chair towards her.
'You divine my purpose? I am an affectionate parent, my dear Mrs
Varden.'

'That I am sure you are, sir,' said Mrs V.

'Thank you,' returned Mr Chester, tapping his snuff-box lid. 'Heavy
moral responsibilities rest with parents, Mrs Varden.'

Mrs Varden slightly raised her hands, shook her head, and looked at the
ground as though she saw straight through the globe, out at the other
end, and into the immensity of space beyond.

'I may confide in you,' said Mr Chester, 'without reserve. I love
my son, ma'am, dearly; and loving him as I do, I would save him from
working certain misery. You know of his attachment to Miss Haredale.
You have abetted him in it, and very kind of you it was to do so. I am
deeply obliged to you--most deeply obliged to you--for your interest in
his behalf; but my dear ma'am, it is a mistaken one, I do assure you.'

Mrs Varden stammered that she was sorry--'

'Sorry, my dear ma'am,' he interposed. 'Never be sorry for what is so
very amiable, so very good in intention, so perfectly like yourself. But
there are grave and weighty reasons, pressing family considerations, and
apart even from these, points of religious difference, which interpose
themselves, and render their union impossible; utterly im-possible.
I should have mentioned these circumstances to your husband; but he
has--you will excuse my saying this so freely--he has NOT your quickness
of apprehension or depth of moral sense. What an extremely airy house
this is, and how beautifully kept! For one like myself--a widower so
long--these tokens of female care and superintendence have inexpressible
charms.'

Mrs Varden began to think (she scarcely knew why) that the young Mr
Chester must be in the wrong and the old Mr Chester must be in the
right.

'My son Ned,' resumed her tempter with his most winning air, 'has had, I
am told, your lovely daughter's aid, and your open-hearted husband's.'

'--Much more than mine, sir,' said Mrs Varden; 'a great deal more. I
have often had my doubts. It's a--'

'A bad example,' suggested Mr Chester. 'It is. No doubt it is. Your
daughter is at that age when to set before her an encouragement for
young persons to rebel against