 this difficulty,
the other man contented himself with damning the magistrates.

'With all my heart,' said his friend.

'Where's the use of a magistrate?' returned the other voice. 'What's
a magistrate in this case, but an impertinent, unnecessary,
unconstitutional sort of interference? Here's a proclamation. Here's a
man referred to in that proclamation. Here's proof against him, and a
witness on the spot. Damme! Take him out and shoot him, sir. Who wants a
magistrate?'

'When does he go before Sir John Fielding?' asked the man who had spoken
first.

'To-night at eight o'clock,' returned the other. 'Mark what follows. The
magistrate commits him to Newgate. Our people take him to Newgate. The
rioters pelt our people. Our people retire before the rioters. Stones
are thrown, insults are offered, not a shot's fired. Why? Because of the
magistrates. Damn the magistrates!'

When he had in some degree relieved his mind by cursing the magistrates
in various other forms of speech, the man was silent, save for a low
growling, still having reference to those authorities, which from time
to time escaped him.

Barnaby, who had wit enough to know that this conversation concerned,
and very nearly concerned, himself, remained perfectly quiet until they
ceased to speak, when he groped his way to the door, and peeping through
the air-holes, tried to make out what kind of men they were, to whom he
had been listening.

The one who condemned the civil power in such strong terms, was a
serjeant--engaged just then, as the streaming ribands in his cap
announced, on the recruiting service. He stood leaning sideways against
a pillar nearly opposite the door, and as he growled to himself, drew
figures on the pavement with his cane. The other man had his back
towards the dungeon, and Barnaby could only see his form. To judge from
that, he was a gallant, manly, handsome fellow, but he had lost his left
arm. It had been taken off between the elbow and the shoulder, and his
empty coat-sleeve hung across his breast.

It was probably this circumstance which gave him an interest beyond any
that his companion could boast of, and attracted Barnaby's attention.
There was something soldierly in his bearing, and he wore a jaunty cap
and jacket. Perhaps he had been in the service at one time or other.
If he had, it could not have been very long ago, for he was but a young
fellow now.

'Well, well,' he said thoughtfully; 'let the fault be where it may, it
makes a man sorrowful to come back to old England, and see her in this
condition.'

'I suppose the pigs will join 'em next,' said the serjeant, with
an imprecation on the rioters, 'now that the birds have set 'em the
example.'

'The birds!' repeated Tom Green.

'Ah--birds,' said the serjeant testily; 'that's English, an't it?'

'I don't know what you mean.'

'Go to the guard-house, and see. You'll find a bird there, that's got
their cry as pat as any of 'em, and bawls "No Popery," like a man--or
like a devil, as he says he is. I shouldn't wonder. The devil's loose
in London somewhere. Damme if I wouldn't twist his neck round, on the
chance, if I had MY way.'

The young man had taken two or three steps away, as if to go and see
this creature, when he was arrested by the voice of Barnaby.

'It's mine,' he called out, half laughing and half weeping--'my pet,
my friend Grip. Ha ha ha! Don't hurt him, he has done no harm. I taught
him; it's my fault. Let me have him, if you please. He's the only friend
I have left now. He'll not dance, or talk, or whistle for you, I
know; but he will for me, because he knows me and loves me--though you
wouldn't think it--very well. You wouldn't hurt a bird, I'm sure. You're
a brave soldier, sir, and wouldn't harm a woman or a child--no, no, nor
a poor bird, I'm certain.'

This latter adjuration was addressed to the serjeant, whom Barnaby
judged from his red coat to be high in office, and able to seal Grip's
destiny by a word. But that gentleman, in reply, surlily damned him for
a thief and rebel as he was, and with many disinterested imprecations on
his own eyes, liver, blood, and body, assured him that if it rested with
him to decide, he would put a final stopper on the bird, and his master
too.

'You talk boldly to a caged man,' said Barnaby, in anger. 'If I was on
the other side of the door and there were none to part us, you'd change
your note--ay, you may toss your head--you would! Kill the bird--do.
Kill anything you can, and so revenge yourself on those who with their
bare hands untied could do as much to you!'

Having vented his defiance, he flung himself into the furthest corner
of his prison, and muttering, 'Good bye, Grip--good bye, dear old Grip!'
shed tears for the first time since he had been taken captive; and hid
his face in the straw.

He had had some fancy at first, that the one-armed man would help him,
or would give him a kind word in answer. He hardly knew why, but he
hoped and thought so. The young fellow had stopped when he called out,
and checking himself in the very act of turning round, stood listening
to every word he said. Perhaps he built his feeble trust 