ud voice, and
waving his hand in a disturbed and agitated manner; 'we have nothing in
common.'

'We have much in common--many things--all that the Almighty gave us,'
said Mr Haredale; 'and common charity, not to say common sense and
common decency, should teach you to refrain from these proceedings. If
every one of those men had arms in their hands at this moment, as they
have them in their heads, I would not leave this place without telling
you that you disgrace your station.'

'I don't hear you, sir,' he replied in the same manner as before; 'I
can't hear you. It is indifferent to me what you say. Don't retort,
Gashford,' for the secretary had made a show of wishing to do so; 'I can
hold no communion with the worshippers of idols.'

As he said this, he glanced at Sir John, who lifted his hands and
eyebrows, as if deploring the intemperate conduct of Mr Haredale, and
smiled in admiration of the crowd and of their leader.

'HE retort!' cried Haredale. 'Look you here, my lord. Do you know this
man?'

Lord George replied by laying his hand upon the shoulder of his cringing
secretary, and viewing him with a smile of confidence.

'This man,' said Mr Haredale, eyeing him from top to toe, 'who in his
boyhood was a thief, and has been from that time to this, a servile,
false, and truckling knave: this man, who has crawled and crept through
life, wounding the hands he licked, and biting those he fawned upon:
this sycophant, who never knew what honour, truth, or courage meant; who
robbed his benefactor's daughter of her virtue, and married her to break
her heart, and did it, with stripes and cruelty: this creature, who has
whined at kitchen windows for the broken food, and begged for halfpence
at our chapel doors: this apostle of the faith, whose tender conscience
cannot bear the altars where his vicious life was publicly denounced--Do
you know this man?'

'Oh, really--you are very, very hard upon our friend!' exclaimed Sir
John.

'Let Mr Haredale go on,' said Gashford, upon whose unwholesome face the
perspiration had broken out during this speech, in blotches of wet; 'I
don't mind him, Sir John; it's quite as indifferent to me what he says,
as it is to my lord. If he reviles my lord, as you have heard, Sir John,
how can I hope to escape?'

'Is it not enough, my lord,' Mr Haredale continued, 'that I, as good a
gentleman as you, must hold my property, such as it is, by a trick at
which the state connives because of these hard laws; and that we may not
teach our youth in schools the common principles of right and wrong; but
must we be denounced and ridden by such men as this! Here is a man to
head your No-Popery cry! For shame. For shame!'

The infatuated nobleman had glanced more than once at Sir John Chester,
as if to inquire whether there was any truth in these statements
concerning Gashford, and Sir John had as often plainly answered by a
shrug or look, 'Oh dear me! no.' He now said, in the same loud key, and
in the same strange manner as before:

'I have nothing to say, sir, in reply, and no desire to hear anything
more. I beg you won't obtrude your conversation, or these personal
attacks, upon me. I shall not be deterred from doing my duty to my
country and my countrymen, by any such attempts, whether they proceed
from emissaries of the Pope or not, I assure you. Come, Gashford!'

They had walked on a few paces while speaking, and were now at the
Hall-door, through which they passed together. Mr Haredale, without any
leave-taking, turned away to the river stairs, which were close at hand,
and hailed the only boatman who remained there.

But the throng of people--the foremost of whom had heard every word
that Lord George Gordon said, and among all of whom the rumour had been
rapidly dispersed that the stranger was a Papist who was bearding him
for his advocacy of the popular cause--came pouring out pell-mell, and,
forcing the nobleman, his secretary, and Sir John Chester on before
them, so that they appeared to be at their head, crowded to the top of
the stairs where Mr Haredale waited until the boat was ready, and there
stood still, leaving him on a little clear space by himself.

They were not silent, however, though inactive. At first some indistinct
mutterings arose among them, which were followed by a hiss or two, and
these swelled by degrees into a perfect storm. Then one voice said,
'Down with the Papists!' and there was a pretty general cheer, but
nothing more. After a lull of a few moments, one man cried out, 'Stone
him;' another, 'Duck him;' another, in a stentorian voice, 'No Popery!'
This favourite cry the rest re-echoed, and the mob, which might have
been two hundred strong, joined in a general shout.

Mr Haredale had stood calmly on the brink of the steps, until they made
this demonstration, when he looked round contemptuously, and walked at
a slow pace down the stairs. He was pretty near the boat, when Gashford,
as if without intention, turned about, and directly afterwards a great
stone was thrown by some hand, in the crowd, which struck him on the
head, and made him stagger like a drunken man.

The blood sprung fr