 I knew that you'd be angry with me if I stayed
away,' said Hugh, blurting the words out, after an embarrassed silence;
'and because I wished to please you if I could, and not to have you go
against me. There. That's the true reason why I came to-night. You know
that, master, I am sure.'

'You are a specious fellow,' returned Sir John, fixing his eyes upon
him, 'and carry two faces under your hood, as well as the best. Didn't
you give me in this room, this evening, any other reason; no dislike
of anybody who has slighted you lately, on all occasions, abused you,
treated you with rudeness; acted towards you, more as if you were a
mongrel dog than a man like himself?'

'To be sure I did!' cried Hugh, his passion rising, as the other meant
it should; 'and I say it all over now, again. I'd do anything to have
some revenge on him--anything. And when you told me that he and all
the Catholics would suffer from those who joined together under that
handbill, I said I'd make one of 'em, if their master was the devil
himself. I AM one of 'em. See whether I am as good as my word and turn
out to be among the foremost, or no. I mayn't have much head, master,
but I've head enough to remember those that use me ill. You shall see,
and so shall he, and so shall hundreds more, how my spirit backs me
when the time comes. My bark is nothing to my bite. Some that I know had
better have a wild lion among 'em than me, when I am fairly loose--they
had!'

The knight looked at him with a smile of far deeper meaning than
ordinary; and pointing to the old cupboard, followed him with his eyes
while he filled and drank a glass of liquor; and smiled when his back
was turned, with deeper meaning yet.

'You are in a blustering mood, my friend,' he said, when Hugh confronted
him again.

'Not I, master!' cried Hugh. 'I don't say half I mean. I can't. I
haven't got the gift. There are talkers enough among us; I'll be one of
the doers.'

'Oh! you have joined those fellows then?' said Sir John, with an air of
most profound indifference.

'Yes. I went up to the house you told me of; and got put down upon the
muster. There was another man there, named Dennis--'

'Dennis, eh!' cried Sir John, laughing. 'Ay, ay! a pleasant fellow, I
believe?'

'A roaring dog, master--one after my own heart--hot upon the matter
too--red hot.'

'So I have heard,' replied Sir John, carelessly. 'You don't happen to
know his trade, do you?'

'He wouldn't say,' cried Hugh. 'He keeps it secret.'

'Ha ha!' laughed Sir John. 'A strange fancy--a weakness with some
persons--you'll know it one day, I dare swear.'

'We're intimate already,' said Hugh.

'Quite natural! And have been drinking together, eh?' pursued Sir John.
'Did you say what place you went to in company, when you left Lord
George's?'

Hugh had not said or thought of saying, but he told him; and this
inquiry being followed by a long train of questions, he related all that
had passed both in and out of doors, the kind of people he had seen,
their numbers, state of feeling, mode of conversation, apparent
expectations and intentions. His questioning was so artfully contrived,
that he seemed even in his own eyes to volunteer all this information
rather than to have it wrested from him; and he was brought to this
state of feeling so naturally, that when Mr Chester yawned at length and
declared himself quite wearied out, he made a rough kind of excuse for
having talked so much.

'There--get you gone,' said Sir John, holding the door open in his hand.
'You have made a pretty evening's work. I told you not to do this. You
may get into trouble. You'll have an opportunity of revenging yourself
on your proud friend Haredale, though, and for that, you'd hazard
anything, I suppose?'

'I would,' retorted Hugh, stopping in his passage out and looking
back; 'but what do I risk! What do I stand a chance of losing, master?
Friends, home? A fig for 'em all; I have none; they are nothing to me.
Give me a good scuffle; let me pay off old scores in a bold riot where
there are men to stand by me; and then use me as you like--it don't
matter much to me what the end is!'

'What have you done with that paper?' said Sir John.

'I have it here, master.'

'Drop it again as you go along; it's as well not to keep such things
about you.'

Hugh nodded, and touching his cap with an air of as much respect as he
could summon up, departed.

Sir John, fastening the doors behind him, went back to his
dressing-room, and sat down once again before the fire, at which he
gazed for a long time, in earnest meditation.

'This happens fortunately,' he said, breaking into a smile, 'and
promises well. Let me see. My relative and I, who are the most
Protestant fellows in the world, give our worst wishes to the Roman
Catholic cause; and to Saville, who introduces their bill, I have a
personal objection besides; but as each of us has himself for the first
article in his creed, we cannot commit ourselves by joining with a very
extravagant madman, such as this Gordon most undoubtedly is. Now really,
to foment his disturbances in secret, through the medium of such a very
apt instrument