nds of both parties tried to arrange the affair,
    but failed to do so.  On Friday evening, about seven o’clock, Major
    Gally met Mr. P. Arpin in Chatres Street, and accosted him.  “Are you
    Mr. Arpin?”

    ‘“Yes, sir.”

    ‘“Then I have to tell you that you are a—” (applying an appropriate
    epithet).

    ‘“I shall remind you of your words, sir.”

    ‘“But I have said I would break my cane on your shoulders.”

    ‘“I know it, but I have not yet received the blow.”

    ‘At these words, Major Gally, having a cane in his hands, struck Mr.
    Arpin across the face, and the latter drew a poignard from his pocket
    and stabbed Major Gally in the abdomen.

    ‘Fears are entertained that the wound will be mortal.  _We understand
    that Mr. Arpin has given security for his appearance at the Criminal
    Court to answer the charge_.’

                          ‘_Affray in Mississippi_.

    ‘On the 27th ult., in an affray near Carthage, Leake county,
    Mississippi, between James Cottingham and John Wilburn, the latter
    was shot by the former, and so horribly wounded, that there was no
    hope of his recovery.  On the 2nd instant, there was an affray at
    Carthage between A. C. Sharkey and George Goff, in which the latter
    was shot, and thought mortally wounded.  Sharkey delivered himself up
    to the authorities, _but changed his mind and escaped_!’

                            ‘_Personal Encounter_.

    ‘An encounter took place in Sparta, a few days since, between the
    barkeeper of an hotel, and a man named Bury.  It appears that Bury
    had become somewhat noisy, _and that the barkeeper_, _determined to
    preserve order_, _had threatened to shoot Bury_, whereupon Bury drew
    a pistol and shot the barkeeper down.  He was not dead at the last
    accounts, but slight hopes were entertained of his recovery.’

                                   ‘_Duel_.

    ‘The clerk of the steamboat _Tribune_ informs us that another duel
    was fought on Tuesday last, by Mr. Robbins, a bank officer in
    Vicksburg, and Mr. Fall, the editor of the Vicksburg Sentinel.
    According to the arrangement, the parties had six pistols each,
    which, after the word “Fire!” _they were to discharge as fast as they
    pleased_.  Fall fired two pistols without effect.  Mr. Robbins’ first
    shot took effect in Fall’s thigh, who fell, and was unable to
    continue the combat.’

                         ‘_Affray in Clarke County_.

    ‘An _unfortunate affray_ occurred in Clarke county (MO.), near
    Waterloo, on Tuesday the 19th ult., which originated in settling the
    partnership concerns of Messrs. M‘Kane and M‘Allister, who had been
    engaged in the business of distilling, and resulted in the death of
    the latter, who was shot down by Mr. M‘Kane, because of his
    attempting to take possession of seven barrels of whiskey, the
    property of M‘Kane, which had been knocked off to M‘Allister at a
    sheriff’s sale at one dollar per barrel.  M‘Kane immediately fled
    _and at the latest dates had not been taken_.

    ‘_This unfortunate affray_ caused considerable excitement in the
    neighbourhood, as both the parties were men with large families
    depending upon them and stood well in the community.’

I will quote but one more paragraph, which, by reason of its monstrous
absurdity, may be a relief to these atrocious deeds.

                             ‘_Affair of Honour_.

    ‘We have just heard the particulars of a meeting which took place on
    Six Mile Island, on Tuesday, between two young bloods of our city:
    Samuel Thurston, _aged fifteen_, and William Hine, _aged thirteen_
    years.  They were attended by young gentlemen of the same age.  The
    weapons used on the occasion, were a couple of Dickson’s best rifles;
    the distance, thirty yards.  They took one fire, without any damage
    being sustained by either party, except the ball of Thurston’s gun
    passing through the crown of Hine’s hat.  _Through the intercession
    of the Board of Honour_, the challenge was withdrawn, and the
    difference amicably adjusted.’

If the reader will picture to himself the kind of Board of Honour which
amicably adjusted the difference between these two little boys, who in
any other part of the world would have been amicably adjusted on two
porters’ backs and soundly flogged with birchen rods, he will be
possessed, no doubt, with as strong a sense of its ludicrous character,
as that which sets me laughing whenever its image rises up before me.

Now, I appeal to every human mind, imbued with the commonest of common
sense, and the commonest of common humanity; to all dispassionate,
reasoning creatures, of any shade of opinion; and ask, with these
revolting evidences of the state of society which exists in and about the
slave districts of America before them, can they have a doubt of the real
condition of the slave, or can they for a moment make a compromise
between the institution or any of its flagrant, fearful features, and
their own just consciences? Will they say of any tale of cruelty and
