n the best friends, and you should
understand her if anybody does.'

'I ask your pardon, sir,' rejoined the locksmith. 'I didn't say I
understood her. I wouldn't have the presumption to say that of any
woman. It's not so easily done. But I am not so much surprised, sir, as
you expected me to be, certainly.'

'May I ask why not, my good friend?'

'I have seen, sir,' returned the locksmith with evident reluctance,
'I have seen in connection with her, something that has filled me with
distrust and uneasiness. She has made bad friends, how, or when, I don't
know; but that her house is a refuge for one robber and cut-throat at
least, I am certain. There, sir! Now it's out.'

'Varden!'

'My own eyes, sir, are my witnesses, and for her sake I would be
willingly half-blind, if I could but have the pleasure of mistrusting
'em. I have kept the secret till now, and it will go no further than
yourself, I know; but I tell you that with my own eyes--broad awake--I
saw, in the passage of her house one evening after dark, the highwayman
who robbed and wounded Mr Edward Chester, and on the same night
threatened me.'

'And you made no effort to detain him?' said Mr Haredale quickly.

'Sir,' returned the locksmith, 'she herself prevented me--held me, with
all her strength, and hung about me until he had got clear off.' And
having gone so far, he related circumstantially all that had passed upon
the night in question.

This dialogue was held in a low tone in the locksmith's little parlour,
into which honest Gabriel had shown his visitor on his arrival. Mr
Haredale had called upon him to entreat his company to the widow's, that
he might have the assistance of his persuasion and influence; and out of
this circumstance the conversation had arisen.

'I forbore,' said Gabriel, 'from repeating one word of this to anybody,
as it could do her no good and might do her great harm. I thought and
hoped, to say the truth, that she would come to me, and talk to me about
it, and tell me how it was; but though I have purposely put myself
in her way more than once or twice, she has never touched upon the
subject--except by a look. And indeed,' said the good-natured locksmith,
'there was a good deal in the look, more than could have been put into a
great many words. It said among other matters "Don't ask me anything"
so imploringly, that I didn't ask her anything. You'll think me an old
fool, I know, sir. If it's any relief to call me one, pray do.'

'I am greatly disturbed by what you tell me,' said Mr Haredale, after a
silence. 'What meaning do you attach to it?'

The locksmith shook his head, and looked doubtfully out of window at the
failing light.

'She cannot have married again,' said Mr Haredale.

'Not without our knowledge surely, sir.'

'She may have done so, in the fear that it would lead, if known, to some
objection or estrangement. Suppose she married incautiously--it is not
improbable, for her existence has been a lonely and monotonous one for
many years--and the man turned out a ruffian, she would be anxious to
screen him, and yet would revolt from his crimes. This might be. It
bears strongly on the whole drift of her discourse yesterday, and would
quite explain her conduct. Do you suppose Barnaby is privy to these
circumstances?'

'Quite impossible to say, sir,' returned the locksmith, shaking his head
again: 'and next to impossible to find out from him. If what you suppose
is really the case, I tremble for the lad--a notable person, sir, to put
to bad uses--'

'It is not possible, Varden,' said Mr Haredale, in a still lower tone of
voice than he had spoken yet, 'that we have been blinded and deceived by
this woman from the beginning? It is not possible that this connection
was formed in her husband's lifetime, and led to his and my brother's--'

'Good God, sir,' cried Gabriel, interrupting him, 'don't entertain such
dark thoughts for a moment. Five-and-twenty years ago, where was there a
girl like her? A gay, handsome, laughing, bright-eyed damsel! Think what
she was, sir. It makes my heart ache now, even now, though I'm an old
man, with a woman for a daughter, to think what she was and what she is.
We all change, but that's with Time; Time does his work honestly, and
I don't mind him. A fig for Time, sir. Use him well, and he's a hearty
fellow, and scorns to have you at a disadvantage. But care and suffering
(and those have changed her) are devils, sir--secret, stealthy,
undermining devils--who tread down the brightest flowers in Eden, and do
more havoc in a month than Time does in a year. Picture to yourself for
one minute what Mary was before they went to work with her fresh
heart and face--do her that justice--and say whether such a thing is
possible.'

'You're a good fellow, Varden,' said Mr Haredale, 'and are quite right.
I have brooded on that subject so long, that every breath of suspicion
carries me back to it. You are quite right.'

'It isn't, sir,' cried the locksmith with brightened eyes, and sturdy,
honest voice; 'it isn't because I courted her before Rudge, and failed,
that I say she was too good for him. She would have been as much