rks of that nature.
Then they would condescendingly give Joe to understand that it was
all for his good, and he would be thankful for it one day; and in
particular, Mr Cobb would acquaint him, that when he was his age, his
father thought no more of giving him a parental kick, or a box on the
ears, or a cuff on the head, or some little admonition of that sort,
than he did of any other ordinary duty of life; and he would further
remark, with looks of great significance, that but for this judicious
bringing up, he might have never been the man he was at that present
speaking; which was probable enough, as he was, beyond all question,
the dullest dog of the party. In short, between old John and old
John's friends, there never was an unfortunate young fellow so bullied,
badgered, worried, fretted, and brow-beaten; so constantly beset, or
made so tired of his life, as poor Joe Willet.

This had come to be the recognised and established state of things; but
as John was very anxious to flourish his supremacy before the eyes of Mr
Chester, he did that day exceed himself, and did so goad and chafe his
son and heir, that but for Joe's having made a solemn vow to keep
his hands in his pockets when they were not otherwise engaged, it is
impossible to say what he might have done with them. But the longest day
has an end, and at length Mr Chester came downstairs to mount his horse,
which was ready at the door.

As old John was not in the way at the moment, Joe, who was sitting in
the bar ruminating on his dismal fate and the manifold perfections of
Dolly Varden, ran out to hold the guest's stirrup and assist him to
mount. Mr Chester was scarcely in the saddle, and Joe was in the very
act of making him a graceful bow, when old John came diving out of the
porch, and collared him.

'None of that, sir,' said John, 'none of that, sir. No breaking of
patroles. How dare you come out of the door, sir, without leave? You're
trying to get away, sir, are you, and to make a traitor of yourself
again? What do you mean, sir?'

'Let me go, father,' said Joe, imploringly, as he marked the smile upon
their visitor's face, and observed the pleasure his disgrace afforded
him. 'This is too bad. Who wants to get away?'

'Who wants to get away!' cried John, shaking him. 'Why you do, sir,
you do. You're the boy, sir,' added John, collaring with one hand, and
aiding the effect of a farewell bow to the visitor with the other,
'that wants to sneak into houses, and stir up differences between noble
gentlemen and their sons, are you, eh? Hold your tongue, sir.'

Joe made no effort to reply. It was the crowning circumstance of his
degradation. He extricated himself from his father's grasp, darted an
angry look at the departing guest, and returned into the house.

'But for her,' thought Joe, as he threw his arms upon a table in the
common room, and laid his head upon them, 'but for Dolly, who I couldn't
bear should think me the rascal they would make me out to be if I ran
away, this house and I should part to-night.'

It being evening by this time, Solomon Daisy, Tom Cobb, and Long Parkes,
were all in the common room too, and had from the window been witnesses
of what had just occurred. Mr Willet joining them soon afterwards,
received the compliments of the company with great composure, and
lighting his pipe, sat down among them.

'We'll see, gentlemen,' said John, after a long pause, 'who's the master
of this house, and who isn't. We'll see whether boys are to govern men,
or men are to govern boys.'

'And quite right too,' assented Solomon Daisy with some approving nods;
'quite right, Johnny. Very good, Johnny. Well said, Mr Willet. Brayvo,
sir.'

John slowly brought his eyes to bear upon him, looked at him for a long
time, and finally made answer, to the unspeakable consternation of his
hearers, 'When I want encouragement from you, sir, I'll ask you for
it. You let me alone, sir. I can get on without you, I hope. Don't you
tackle me, sir, if you please.'

'Don't take it ill, Johnny; I didn't mean any harm,' pleaded the little
man.

'Very good, sir,' said John, more than usually obstinate after his late
success. 'Never mind, sir. I can stand pretty firm of myself, sir, I
believe, without being shored up by you.' And having given utterance to
this retort, Mr Willet fixed his eyes upon the boiler, and fell into a
kind of tobacco-trance.

The spirits of the company being somewhat damped by this embarrassing
line of conduct on the part of their host, nothing more was said for a
long time; but at length Mr Cobb took upon himself to remark, as he rose
to knock the ashes out of his pipe, that he hoped Joe would thenceforth
learn to obey his father in all things; that he had found, that day, he
was not one of the sort of men who were to be trifled with; and that
he would recommend him, poetically speaking, to mind his eye for the
future.

'I'd recommend you, in return,' said Joe, looking up with a flushed
face, 'not to talk to me.'

'Hold your tongue, sir,' cried Mr Willet, suddenly rousing himself, and
turning round.

'I won't, father,' cried Joe, smiting the table with his 