 red-brick dwelling-house, with a yellow roof;
having at top a real chimney, down which voluntary subscribers dropped
their silver, gold, or pence, into the parlour; and on the door the
counterfeit presentment of a brass plate, whereon was legibly inscribed
'Protestant Association:'--and looking at it, said, that it was to her
a source of poignant misery to think that Varden never had, of all his
substance, dropped anything into that temple, save once in secret--as
she afterwards discovered--two fragments of tobacco-pipe, which she
hoped would not be put down to his last account. That Dolly, she was
grieved to say, was no less backward in her contributions, better
loving, as it seemed, to purchase ribbons and such gauds, than to
encourage the great cause, then in such heavy tribulation; and that she
did entreat her (her father she much feared could not be moved) not to
despise, but imitate, the bright example of Miss Miggs, who flung her
wages, as it were, into the very countenance of the Pope, and bruised
his features with her quarter's money.

'Oh, mim,' said Miggs, 'don't relude to that. I had no intentions, mim,
that nobody should know. Such sacrifices as I can make, are quite a
widder's mite. It's all I have,' cried Miggs with a great burst of
tears--for with her they never came on by degrees--'but it's made up to
me in other ways; it's well made up.'

This was quite true, though not perhaps in the sense that Miggs
intended. As she never failed to keep her self-denial full in Mrs
Varden's view, it drew forth so many gifts of caps and gowns and other
articles of dress, that upon the whole the red-brick house was perhaps
the best investment for her small capital she could possibly have hit
upon; returning her interest, at the rate of seven or eight per cent in
money, and fifty at least in personal repute and credit.

'You needn't cry, Miggs,' said Mrs Varden, herself in tears; 'you
needn't be ashamed of it, though your poor mistress IS on the same
side.'

Miggs howled at this remark, in a peculiarly dismal way, and said she
knowed that master hated her. That it was a dreadful thing to live in
families and have dislikes, and not give satisfactions. That to make
divisions was a thing she could not abear to think of, neither could her
feelings let her do it. That if it was master's wishes as she and him
should part, it was best they should part, and she hoped he might be
the happier for it, and always wished him well, and that he might find
somebody as would meet his dispositions. It would be a hard trial, she
said, to part from such a missis, but she could meet any suffering when
her conscience told her she was in the rights, and therefore she was
willing even to go that lengths. She did not think, she added, that she
could long survive the separations, but, as she was hated and looked
upon unpleasant, perhaps her dying as soon as possible would be the best
endings for all parties. With this affecting conclusion, Miss Miggs shed
more tears, and sobbed abundantly.

'Can you bear this, Varden?' said his wife in a solemn voice, laying
down her knife and fork.

'Why, not very well, my dear,' rejoined the locksmith, 'but I try to
keep my temper.'

'Don't let there be words on my account, mim,' sobbed Miggs. 'It's much
the best that we should part. I wouldn't stay--oh, gracious me!--and
make dissensions, not for a annual gold mine, and found in tea and
sugar.'

Lest the reader should be at any loss to discover the cause of Miss
Miggs's deep emotion, it may be whispered apart that, happening to
be listening, as her custom sometimes was, when Gabriel and his wife
conversed together, she had heard the locksmith's joke relative to the
foreign black who played the tambourine, and bursting with the spiteful
feelings which the taunt awoke in her fair breast, exploded in the
manner we have witnessed. Matters having now arrived at a crisis, the
locksmith, as usual, and for the sake of peace and quietness, gave in.

'What are you crying for, girl?' he said. 'What's the matter with you?
What are you talking about hatred for? I don't hate you; I don't hate
anybody. Dry your eyes and make yourself agreeable, in Heaven's name,
and let us all be happy while we can.'

The allied powers deeming it good generalship to consider this a
sufficient apology on the part of the enemy, and confession of having
been in the wrong, did dry their eyes and take it in good part. Miss
Miggs observed that she bore no malice, no not to her greatest foe, whom
she rather loved the more indeed, the greater persecution she sustained.
Mrs Varden approved of this meek and forgiving spirit in high terms,
and incidentally declared as a closing article of agreement, that Dolly
should accompany her to the Clerkenwell branch of the association, that
very night. This was an extraordinary instance of her great prudence and
policy; having had this end in view from the first, and entertaining
a secret misgiving that the locksmith (who was bold when Dolly was in
question) would object, she had backed Miss Miggs up to this point, in
order that she might have him at a disadvantage.