ess of this mansion, sir.  It belongs to her.  Nobody else has
anything whatever to do with it.  It is a large establishment, as you
see, and requires a great number of attendants.  She lives, you observe,
in the very first style.  She is kind enough to receive my visits, and to
permit my wife and family to reside here; for which it is hardly
necessary to say, we are much indebted to her.  She is exceedingly
courteous, you perceive,’ on this hint she bowed condescendingly, ‘and
will permit me to have the pleasure of introducing you: a gentleman from
England, Ma’am: newly arrived from England, after a very tempestuous
passage: Mr. Dickens,—the lady of the house!’

We exchanged the most dignified salutations with profound gravity and
respect, and so went on.  The rest of the madwomen seemed to understand
the joke perfectly (not only in this case, but in all the others, except
their own), and be highly amused by it.  The nature of their several
kinds of insanity was made known to me in the same way, and we left each
of them in high good humour.  Not only is a thorough confidence
established, by those means, between the physician and patient, in
respect of the nature and extent of their hallucinations, but it is easy
to understand that opportunities are afforded for seizing any moment of
reason, to startle them by placing their own delusion before them in its
most incongruous and ridiculous light.

Every patient in this asylum sits down to dinner every day with a knife
and fork; and in the midst of them sits the gentleman, whose manner of
dealing with his charges, I have just described.  At every meal, moral
influence alone restrains the more violent among them from cutting the
throats of the rest; but the effect of that influence is reduced to an
absolute certainty, and is found, even as a means of restraint, to say
nothing of it as a means of cure, a hundred times more efficacious than
all the strait-waistcoats, fetters, and handcuffs, that ignorance,
prejudice, and cruelty have manufactured since the creation of the world.

In the labour department, every patient is as freely trusted with the
tools of his trade as if he were a sane man.  In the garden, and on the
farm, they work with spades, rakes, and hoes.  For amusement, they walk,
run, fish, paint, read, and ride out to take the air in carriages
provided for the purpose.  They have among themselves a sewing society to
make clothes for the poor, which holds meetings, passes resolutions,
never comes to fisty-cuffs or bowie-knives as sane assemblies have been
known to do elsewhere; and conducts all its proceedings with the greatest
decorum.  The irritability, which would otherwise be expended on their
own flesh, clothes, and furniture, is dissipated in these pursuits.  They
are cheerful, tranquil, and healthy.

Once a week they have a ball, in which the Doctor and his family, with
all the nurses and attendants, take an active part.  Dances and marches
are performed alternately, to the enlivening strains of a piano; and now
and then some gentleman or lady (whose proficiency has been previously
ascertained) obliges the company with a song: nor does it ever
degenerate, at a tender crisis, into a screech or howl; wherein, I must
confess, I should have thought the danger lay.  At an early hour they all
meet together for these festive purposes; at eight o’clock refreshments
are served; and at nine they separate.

Immense politeness and good breeding are observed throughout.  They all
take their tone from the Doctor; and he moves a very Chesterfield among
the company.  Like other assemblies, these entertainments afford a
fruitful topic of conversation among the ladies for some days; and the
gentlemen are so anxious to shine on these occasions, that they have been
sometimes found ‘practising their steps’ in private, to cut a more
distinguished figure in the dance.

It is obvious that one great feature of this system, is the inculcation
and encouragement, even among such unhappy persons, of a decent
self-respect.  Something of the same spirit pervades all the Institutions
at South Boston.

There is the House of Industry.  In that branch of it, which is devoted
to the reception of old or otherwise helpless paupers, these words are
painted on the walls: ‘WORTHY OF NOTICE.  SELF-GOVERNMENT, QUIETUDE, AND
PEACE, ARE BLESSINGS.’  It is not assumed and taken for granted that
being there they must be evil-disposed and wicked people, before whose
vicious eyes it is necessary to flourish threats and harsh restraints.
They are met at the very threshold with this mild appeal.  All
within-doors is very plain and simple, as it ought to be, but arranged
with a view to peace and comfort.  It costs no more than any other plan
of arrangement, but it speaks an amount of consideration for those who
are reduced to seek a shelter there, which puts them at once upon their
gratitude and good behaviour.  Instead of being parcelled out in great,
long, rambling wards, where a certain amount of weazen life may mope, and
pine, and shiver, all day long, the building is divided into separate
rooms, each with its 