men remained drawn up by
themselves as before.

The two gentlemen in private clothes who had kept aloof, now rode
forward, one on either side the officer. The proclamation having been
produced and read by one of them, the officer called on Barnaby to
surrender.

He made no answer, but stepping within the door, before which he had
kept guard, held his pole crosswise to protect it. In the midst of a
profound silence, he was again called upon to yield.

Still he offered no reply. Indeed he had enough to do, to run his eye
backward and forward along the half-dozen men who immediately fronted
him, and settle hurriedly within himself at which of them he would
strike first, when they pressed on him. He caught the eye of one in the
centre, and resolved to hew that fellow down, though he died for it.

Again there was a dead silence, and again the same voice called upon him
to deliver himself up.

Next moment he was back in the stable, dealing blows about him like a
madman. Two of the men lay stretched at his feet: the one he had marked,
dropped first--he had a thought for that, even in the hot blood and
hurry of the struggle. Another blow--another! Down, mastered, wounded in
the breast by a heavy blow from the butt-end of a gun (he saw the weapon
in the act of falling)--breathless--and a prisoner.

An exclamation of surprise from the officer recalled him, in some
degree, to himself. He looked round. Grip, after working in secret all
the afternoon, and with redoubled vigour while everybody's attention was
distracted, had plucked away the straw from Hugh's bed, and turned up
the loose ground with his iron bill. The hole had been recklessly filled
to the brim, and was merely sprinkled with earth. Golden cups, spoons,
candlesticks, coined guineas--all the riches were revealed.

They brought spades and a sack; dug up everything that was hidden there;
and carried away more than two men could lift. They handcuffed him
and bound his arms, searched him, and took away all he had. Nobody
questioned or reproached him, or seemed to have much curiosity about
him. The two men he had stunned, were carried off by their companions in
the same business-like way in which everything else was done. Finally,
he was left under a guard of four soldiers with fixed bayonets, while
the officer directed in person the search of the house and the other
buildings connected with it.

This was soon completed. The soldiers formed again in the yard; he was
marched out, with his guard about him; and ordered to fall in, where a
space was left. The others closed up all round, and so they moved away,
with the prisoner in the centre.

When they came into the streets, he felt he was a sight; and looking up
as they passed quickly along, could see people running to the windows a
little too late, and throwing up the sashes to look after him. Sometimes
he met a staring face beyond the heads about him, or under the arms of
his conductors, or peering down upon him from a waggon-top or coach-box;
but this was all he saw, being surrounded by so many men. The very
noises of the streets seemed muffled and subdued; and the air came stale
and hot upon him, like the sickly breath of an oven.

Tramp, tramp. Tramp, tramp. Heads erect, shoulders square, every man
stepping in exact time--all so orderly and regular--nobody looking at
him--nobody seeming conscious of his presence,--he could hardly believe
he was a Prisoner. But at the word, though only thought, not spoken, he
felt the handcuffs galling his wrists, the cord pressing his arms to
his sides: the loaded guns levelled at his head; and those cold, bright,
sharp, shining points turned towards him: the mere looking down at
which, now that he was bound and helpless, made the warm current of his
life run cold.



Chapter 58


They were not long in reaching the barracks, for the officer who
commanded the party was desirous to avoid rousing the people by the
display of military force in the streets, and was humanely anxious
to give as little opportunity as possible for any attempt at rescue;
knowing that it must lead to bloodshed and loss of life, and that if the
civil authorities by whom he was accompanied, empowered him to order his
men to fire, many innocent persons would probably fall, whom curiosity
or idleness had attracted to the spot. He therefore led the party
briskly on, avoiding with a merciful prudence the more public and
crowded thoroughfares, and pursuing those which he deemed least likely
to be infested by disorderly persons. This wise proceeding not only
enabled them to gain their quarters without any interruption, but
completely baffled a body of rioters who had assembled in one of the
main streets, through which it was considered certain they would pass,
and who remained gathered together for the purpose of releasing the
prisoner from their hands, long after they had deposited him in a place
of security, closed the barrack-gates, and set a double guard at every
entrance for its better protection.

Arrived at this place, poor Barnaby was marched into a stone-floored
room, where there was a very powerful smell of tobacco, a