a faded, rusty, whitened black, like the ashes
of a pipe or a coal fire after a day's extinction; discoloured with the
soils of many a stale debauch, and reeking yet with pot-house odours. In
lieu of buckles at his knees, he wore unequal loops of packthread; and
in his grimy hands he held a knotted stick, the knob of which was carved
into a rough likeness of his own vile face. Such was the visitor who
doffed his three-cornered hat in Gashford's presence, and waited,
leering, for his notice.

'Ah! Dennis!' cried the secretary. 'Sit down.'

'I see my lord down yonder--' cried the man, with a jerk of his thumb
towards the quarter that he spoke of, 'and he says to me, says my lord,
"If you've nothing to do, Dennis, go up to my house and talk with Muster
Gashford." Of course I'd nothing to do, you know. These an't my working
hours. Ha ha! I was a-taking the air when I see my lord, that's what
I was doing. I takes the air by night, as the howls does, Muster
Gashford.'

And sometimes in the day-time, eh?' said the secretary--'when you go out
in state, you know.'

'Ha ha!' roared the fellow, smiting his leg; 'for a gentleman as 'ull
say a pleasant thing in a pleasant way, give me Muster Gashford agin'
all London and Westminster! My lord an't a bad 'un at that, but he's a
fool to you. Ah to be sure,--when I go out in state.'

'And have your carriage,' said the secretary; 'and your chaplain, eh?
and all the rest of it?'

'You'll be the death of me,' cried Dennis, with another roar, 'you will.
But what's in the wind now, Muster Gashford,' he asked hoarsely, 'Eh?
Are we to be under orders to pull down one of them Popish chapels--or
what?'

'Hush!' said the secretary, suffering the faintest smile to play upon
his face. 'Hush! God bless me, Dennis! We associate, you know, for
strictly peaceable and lawful purposes.'

'I know, bless you,' returned the man, thrusting his tongue into his
cheek; 'I entered a' purpose, didn't I!'

'No doubt,' said Gashford, smiling as before. And when he said so,
Dennis roared again, and smote his leg still harder, and falling into
fits of laughter, wiped his eyes with the corner of his neckerchief, and
cried, 'Muster Gashford agin' all England hollow!'

'Lord George and I were talking of you last night,' said Gashford, after
a pause. 'He says you are a very earnest fellow.'

'So I am,' returned the hangman.

'And that you truly hate the Papists.'

'So I do,' and he confirmed it with a good round oath. 'Lookye here,
Muster Gashford,' said the fellow, laying his hat and stick upon the
floor, and slowly beating the palm of one hand with the fingers of the
other; 'Ob-serve. I'm a constitutional officer that works for my living,
and does my work creditable. Do I, or do I not?'

'Unquestionably.'

'Very good. Stop a minute. My work, is sound, Protestant,
constitutional, English work. Is it, or is it not?'

'No man alive can doubt it.'

'Nor dead neither. Parliament says this here--says Parliament, "If any
man, woman, or child, does anything which goes again a certain number
of our acts"--how many hanging laws may there be at this present time,
Muster Gashford? Fifty?'

'I don't exactly know how many,' replied Gashford, leaning back in his
chair and yawning; 'a great number though.'

'Well, say fifty. Parliament says, "If any man, woman, or child, does
anything again any one of them fifty acts, that man, woman, or child,
shall be worked off by Dennis." George the Third steps in when they
number very strong at the end of a sessions, and says, "These are too
many for Dennis. I'll have half for myself and Dennis shall have half
for himself;" and sometimes he throws me in one over that I don't
expect, as he did three year ago, when I got Mary Jones, a young woman
of nineteen who come up to Tyburn with a infant at her breast, and was
worked off for taking a piece of cloth off the counter of a shop in
Ludgate Hill, and putting it down again when the shopman see her;
and who had never done any harm before, and only tried to do that, in
consequence of her husband having been pressed three weeks previous, and
she being left to beg, with two young children--as was proved upon the
trial. Ha ha!--Well! That being the law and the practice of England, is
the glory of England, an't it, Muster Gashford?'

'Certainly,' said the secretary.

'And in times to come,' pursued the hangman, 'if our grandsons should
think of their grandfathers' times, and find these things altered,
they'll say, "Those were days indeed, and we've been going down hill
ever since." Won't they, Muster Gashford?'

'I have no doubt they will,' said the secretary.

'Well then, look here,' said the hangman. 'If these Papists gets into
power, and begins to boil and roast instead of hang, what becomes of my
work! If they touch my work that's a part of so many laws, what becomes
of the laws in general, what becomes of the religion, what becomes of
the country!--Did you ever go to church, Muster Gashford?'

'Ever!' repeated the secretary with some indignation; 'of course.'

'Well,' said the ruffian, 'I've been once--twice, counting the time I
was christened--and when I