t the animal.

'None of your impudence, sir, if you please,' retorted old John. 'What
would you ride, sir? A wild ass or zebra would be too tame for you,
wouldn't he, eh sir? You'd like to ride a roaring lion, wouldn't you,
sir, eh sir? Hold your tongue, sir.' When Mr Willet, in his differences
with his son, had exhausted all the questions that occurred to him, and
Joe had said nothing at all in answer, he generally wound up by bidding
him hold his tongue.

'And what does the boy mean,' added Mr Willet, after he had stared at
him for a little time, in a species of stupefaction, 'by cocking his
hat, to such an extent! Are you going to kill the wintner, sir?'

'No,' said Joe, tartly; 'I'm not. Now your mind's at ease, father.'

'With a milintary air, too!' said Mr Willet, surveying him from top to
toe; 'with a swaggering, fire-eating, biling-water drinking sort of way
with him! And what do you mean by pulling up the crocuses and snowdrops,
eh sir?'

'It's only a little nosegay,' said Joe, reddening. 'There's no harm in
that, I hope?'

'You're a boy of business, you are, sir!' said Mr Willet, disdainfully,
'to go supposing that wintners care for nosegays.'

'I don't suppose anything of the kind,' returned Joe. 'Let them keep
their red noses for bottles and tankards. These are going to Mr Varden's
house.'

'And do you suppose HE minds such things as crocuses?' demanded John.

'I don't know, and to say the truth, I don't care,' said Joe. 'Come,
father, give me the money, and in the name of patience let me go.'

'There it is, sir,' replied John; 'and take care of it; and mind you
don't make too much haste back, but give the mare a long rest.--Do you
mind?'

'Ay, I mind,' returned Joe. 'She'll need it, Heaven knows.'

'And don't you score up too much at the Black Lion,' said John. 'Mind
that too.'

'Then why don't you let me have some money of my own?' retorted Joe,
sorrowfully; 'why don't you, father? What do you send me into London
for, giving me only the right to call for my dinner at the Black Lion,
which you're to pay for next time you go, as if I was not to be trusted
with a few shillings? Why do you use me like this? It's not right of
you. You can't expect me to be quiet under it.'

'Let him have money!' cried John, in a drowsy reverie. 'What does he
call money--guineas? Hasn't he got money? Over and above the tolls,
hasn't he one and sixpence?'

'One and sixpence!' repeated his son contemptuously.

'Yes, sir,' returned John, 'one and sixpence. When I was your age, I
had never seen so much money, in a heap. A shilling of it is in case
of accidents--the mare casting a shoe, or the like of that. The other
sixpence is to spend in the diversions of London; and the diversion
I recommend is going to the top of the Monument, and sitting there.
There's no temptation there, sir--no drink--no young women--no bad
characters of any sort--nothing but imagination. That's the way I
enjoyed myself when I was your age, sir.'

To this, Joe made no answer, but beckoning Hugh, leaped into the saddle
and rode away; and a very stalwart, manly horseman he looked, deserving
a better charger than it was his fortune to bestride. John stood staring
after him, or rather after the grey mare (for he had no eyes for her
rider), until man and beast had been out of sight some twenty minutes,
when he began to think they were gone, and slowly re-entering the house,
fell into a gentle doze.

The unfortunate grey mare, who was the agony of Joe's life, floundered
along at her own will and pleasure until the Maypole was no longer
visible, and then, contracting her legs into what in a puppet would have
been looked upon as a clumsy and awkward imitation of a canter, mended
her pace all at once, and did it of her own accord. The acquaintance
with her rider's usual mode of proceeding, which suggested this
improvement in hers, impelled her likewise to turn up a bye-way,
leading--not to London, but through lanes running parallel with the road
they had come, and passing within a few hundred yards of the Maypole,
which led finally to an inclosure surrounding a large, old, red-brick
mansion--the same of which mention was made as the Warren in the
first chapter of this history. Coming to a dead stop in a little copse
thereabout, she suffered her rider to dismount with right goodwill, and
to tie her to the trunk of a tree.

'Stay there, old girl,' said Joe, 'and let us see whether there's any
little commission for me to-day.' So saying, he left her to browze upon
such stunted grass and weeds as happened to grow within the length of
her tether, and passing through a wicket gate, entered the grounds on
foot.

The pathway, after a very few minutes' walking, brought him close to the
house, towards which, and especially towards one particular window, he
directed many covert glances. It was a dreary, silent building, with
echoing courtyards, desolated turret-chambers, and whole suites of rooms
shut up and mouldering to ruin.

The terrace-garden, dark with the shade of overhanging trees, had an air
of melancholy that was quite oppressive. Great iron gates, disused for
many years, 