arries
the village—that is to be—with him: a few frame cottages, and an
apparatus for smelting the copper.  He carries its people too.  They are
partly American and partly Irish, and herd together on the lower deck;
where they amused themselves last evening till the night was pretty far
advanced, by alternately firing off pistols and singing hymns.

They, and the very few who have been left at table twenty minutes, rise,
and go away.  We do so too; and passing through our little state-room,
resume our seats in the quiet gallery without.

A fine broad river always, but in some parts much wider than in others:
and then there is usually a green island, covered with trees, dividing it
into two streams.  Occasionally, we stop for a few minutes, maybe to take
in wood, maybe for passengers, at some small town or village (I ought to
say city, every place is a city here); but the banks are for the most
part deep solitudes, overgrown with trees, which, hereabouts, are already
in leaf and very green.  For miles, and miles, and miles, these solitudes
are unbroken by any sign of human life or trace of human footstep; nor is
anything seen to move about them but the blue jay, whose colour is so
bright, and yet so delicate, that it looks like a flying flower.  At
lengthened intervals a log cabin, with its little space of cleared land
about it, nestles under a rising ground, and sends its thread of blue
smoke curling up into the sky.  It stands in the corner of the poor field
of wheat, which is full of great unsightly stumps, like earthy
butchers’-blocks.  Sometimes the ground is only just now cleared: the
felled trees lying yet upon the soil: and the log-house only this morning
begun.  As we pass this clearing, the settler leans upon his axe or
hammer, and looks wistfully at the people from the world.  The children
creep out of the temporary hut, which is like a gipsy tent upon the
ground, and clap their hands and shout.  The dog only glances round at
us, and then looks up into his master’s face again, as if he were
rendered uneasy by any suspension of the common business, and had nothing
more to do with pleasurers.  And still there is the same, eternal
foreground.  The river has washed away its banks, and stately trees have
fallen down into the stream.  Some have been there so long, that they are
mere dry, grizzly skeletons.  Some have just toppled over, and having
earth yet about their roots, are bathing their green heads in the river,
and putting forth new shoots and branches.  Some are almost sliding down,
as you look at them.  And some were drowned so long ago, that their
bleached arms start out from the middle of the current, and seem to try
to grasp the boat, and drag it under water.

Through such a scene as this, the unwieldy machine takes its hoarse,
sullen way: venting, at every revolution of the paddles, a loud
high-pressure blast; enough, one would think, to waken up the host of
Indians who lie buried in a great mound yonder: so old, that mighty oaks
and other forest trees have struck their roots into its earth; and so
high, that it is a hill, even among the hills that Nature planted round
it.  The very river, as though it shared one’s feelings of compassion for
the extinct tribes who lived so pleasantly here, in their blessed
ignorance of white existence, hundreds of years ago, steals out of its
way to ripple near this mound: and there are few places where the Ohio
sparkles more brightly than in the Big Grave Creek.

All this I see as I sit in the little stern-gallery mentioned just now.
Evening slowly steals upon the landscape and changes it before me, when
we stop to set some emigrants ashore.

Five men, as many women, and a little girl.  All their worldly goods are
a bag, a large chest and an old chair: one, old, high-backed,
rush-bottomed chair: a solitary settler in itself.  They are rowed ashore
in the boat, while the vessel stands a little off awaiting its return,
the water being shallow.  They are landed at the foot of a high bank, on
the summit of which are a few log cabins, attainable only by a long
winding path.  It is growing dusk; but the sun is very red, and shines in
the water and on some of the tree-tops, like fire.

The men get out of the boat first; help out the women; take out the bag,
the chest, the chair; bid the rowers ‘good-bye;’ and shove the boat off
for them.  At the first plash of the oars in the water, the oldest woman
of the party sits down in the old chair, close to the water’s edge,
without speaking a word.  None of the others sit down, though the chest
is large enough for many seats.  They all stand where they landed, as if
stricken into stone; and look after the boat.  So they remain, quite
still and silent: the old woman and her old chair, in the centre the bag
and chest upon the shore, without anybody heeding them all eyes fixed
upon the boat.  It comes alongside, is made fast, the men jump on board,
the engine is put in motion, and we go hoarsely on again.  There they
stand yet, without the motion of a hand.  I can see them through my
glass, when, in the distance and increasing darkness, they