ve me_.”

‘Her tendency to imitation is so strong, that it leads her to actions
which must be entirely incomprehensible to her, and which can give her no
other pleasure than the gratification of an internal faculty.  She has
been known to sit for half an hour, holding a book before her sightless
eyes, and moving her lips, as she has observed seeing people do when
reading.

‘She one day pretended that her doll was sick; and went through all the
motions of tending it, and giving it medicine; she then put it carefully
to bed, and placed a bottle of hot water to its feet, laughing all the
time most heartily.  When I came home, she insisted upon my going to see
it, and feel its pulse; and when I told her to put a blister on its back,
she seemed to enjoy it amazingly, and almost screamed with delight.

‘Her social feelings, and her affections, are very strong; and when she
is sitting at work, or at her studies, by the side of one of her little
friends, she will break off from her task every few moments, to hug and
kiss them with an earnestness and warmth that is touching to behold.

‘When left alone, she occupies and apparently amuses herself, and seems
quite contented; and so strong seems to be the natural tendency of
thought to put on the garb of language, that she often soliloquizes in
the _finger language_, slow and tedious as it is.  But it is only when
alone, that she is quiet: for if she becomes sensible of the presence of
any one near her, she is restless until she can sit close beside them,
hold their hand, and converse with them by signs.

‘In her intellectual character it is pleasing to observe an insatiable
thirst for knowledge, and a quick perception of the relations of things.
In her moral character, it is beautiful to behold her continual gladness,
her keen enjoyment of existence, her expansive love, her unhesitating
confidence, her sympathy with suffering, her conscientiousness,
truthfulness, and hopefulness.’

Such are a few fragments from the simple but most interesting and
instructive history of Laura Bridgman.  The name of her great benefactor
and friend, who writes it, is Dr. Howe.  There are not many persons, I
hope and believe, who, after reading these passages, can ever hear that
name with indifference.

A further account has been published by Dr. Howe, since the report from
which I have just quoted.  It describes her rapid mental growth and
improvement during twelve months more, and brings her little history down
to the end of last year.  It is very remarkable, that as we dream in
words, and carry on imaginary conversations, in which we speak both for
ourselves and for the shadows who appear to us in those visions of the
night, so she, having no words, uses her finger alphabet in her sleep.
And it has been ascertained that when her slumber is broken, and is much
disturbed by dreams, she expresses her thoughts in an irregular and
confused manner on her fingers: just as we should murmur and mutter them
indistinctly, in the like circumstances.

I turned over the leaves of her Diary, and found it written in a fair
legible square hand, and expressed in terms which were quite intelligible
without any explanation.  On my saying that I should like to see her
write again, the teacher who sat beside her, bade her, in their language,
sign her name upon a slip of paper, twice or thrice.  In doing so, I
observed that she kept her left hand always touching, and following up,
her right, in which, of course, she held the pen.  No line was indicated
by any contrivance, but she wrote straight and freely.

She had, until now, been quite unconscious of the presence of visitors;
but, having her hand placed in that of the gentleman who accompanied me,
she immediately expressed his name upon her teacher’s palm.  Indeed her
sense of touch is now so exquisite, that having been acquainted with a
person once, she can recognise him or her after almost any interval.
This gentleman had been in her company, I believe, but very seldom, and
certainly had not seen her for many months.  My hand she rejected at
once, as she does that of any man who is a stranger to her.  But she
retained my wife’s with evident pleasure, kissed her, and examined her
dress with a girl’s curiosity and interest.

She was merry and cheerful, and showed much innocent playfulness in her
intercourse with her teacher.  Her delight on recognising a favourite
playfellow and companion—herself a blind girl—who silently, and with an
equal enjoyment of the coming surprise, took a seat beside her, was
beautiful to witness.  It elicited from her at first, as other slight
circumstances did twice or thrice during my visit, an uncouth noise which
was rather painful to hear.  But of her teacher touching her lips, she
immediately desisted, and embraced her laughingly and affectionately.

I had previously been into another chamber, where a number of blind boys
were swinging, and climbing, and engaged in various sports.  They all
clamoured, as we entered, to the assistant-master, who accompanied us,
‘Look at me, Mr. Hart!  Please, Mr. Hart, look at me!’ evincing, I
thought, even in