.  'I am not bullying you, Sir,' said Ramsey.  'You
    are,' said Fogg; 'get out, Sir, get out of this office, Sir, and come
    back, Sir, when you know how to behave yourself.'  Well, Ramsey tried
    to speak, but Fogg wouldn't let him, so he put the money in his
    pocket, and sneaked out.  The door was scarcely shut, when old Fogg
    turned round to me, with a sweet smile on his face, and drew the
    declaration out of his coat pocket.  'Here, Wicks,' says Fogg, 'take
    a cab, and go down to the Temple as quick as you can, and file that.
    The costs are quite safe, for he's a steady man with a large family,
    at a salary of five-and-twenty shillings a week, and if he gives us a
    warrant of attorney, as he must in the end, I know his employers will
    see it paid; so we may as well get all we can out of him, Mr. Wicks;
    it's a Christian act to do it, Mr. Wicks, for with his large family
    and small income, he'll be all the better for a good lesson against
    getting into debt,--won't he, Mr. Wicks, won't he?'--and he smiled so
    goodnaturedly as he went away, that it was delightful to see him.
    'He is a capital man of business,' said Wicks, in a tone of the
    deepest admiration, 'capital, isn't he?'

    The other three cordially subscribed to this opinion, and the
    anecdote afforded the most unlimited satisfaction.

    'Nice men these here, Sir,' whispered Mr. Weller to his master; 'wery
    nice notion of fun they has, Sir.'

Sir F. Lockwood, by the way, offers one of the most amusing proofs
conceivable, of the convincing power of "Pickwick," which is constantly
taking us out of the world of fiction, into that of the daily living
life.  He speaks of the cruel trick played upon the unfortunate Ramsey,
who came to pay his bill of costs, and was told that these were out of
date, had been swelled by subsequent proceedings.  An affidavit had been
sworn--which, after he left the house, Wicks, the clerk, was sent off to
swear--Then, Sir Frank, adds: "After all, this is merely given _as the
statement of Wicks_--_on whose testimony not much reliance can be
placed_."  As though Wicks were some living witness, "erect upon two
legs," whom he had been examining in Court!

It must, however, be recollected that this was an _exparte_ story.
Wicks, as Sir F. Lockwood hints, may have coloured it up, to amuse his
brethren.  The truth is these poor helpless debtors, who fall into the
hands of legal "sharks" and money-lenders, have _their_ tricks also.
They will often "do" those they employ if they can.  And further, let
this be considered.  Before Ramsey paid his visit the affidavit _had_
been prepared, and was actually in Fogg's pocket.  Such affidavit would
not be allowed for in the costs unless necessary to the case, so that
Fogg's statement that it had been filed was very near the truth.  Perker
himself was playing the same game of hide and seek with another
unfortunate--one Watty--who was trying to see him, and learn something
about his case, but was always put off with the excuse or falsehood, that
Perker was out, though he was within.  But then, "Perker was an
honourable man."

Boz lets us know, through Sam, how the case reached Dodson and Fogg.  He
speaks of "the kind generous people o' the perfession 'as sets their
clerks to work to find out little disputes among their neighbours and
acquaintances as wants settlin' by means of law suits."  This system,
however, cannot be checked, and "the speculative attorney" even in our
time still flourishes.

It was really not a question whether Mr. Pickwick would "indict them for
a conspiracy," because they acted as solicitors against him, but whether
they would bring an action against _him_ on their own account.  All
through, Mr. Pickwick's behaviour to them had been outrageous.  He chose
to assume, quite gratuitously that it was they--not Mrs. Bardell--who got
up the case; that they had worked on her for their own nefarious ends.
Nothing could be more absurd.  The landlady was eager enough to protect
her own interests--her female friends worked on her, and the loss of so
valuable a lodger, which the incident must have entailed, inflamed her
more.  We can see from Sam's interview with her that she was at last,
though at first reluctant, determined to have her rights.  But Mr.
Pickwick acting on this assumption addressed the firm, from the first to
the last in the most scurrilous language.  He called them "robbers,
swindlers,--a brace of pettifogging scoundrels!"  Shocking and
ungentlemanly terms, and what is worse, actionable.  Yet the pair
received this abuse with infinite good temper and restraint, merely
securing a witness who should listen, and threatening the speaker with
legal penalties.

And why did they not take this course?  Well, they had to suspend
proceedings until Mrs. Bardell's action was settled, when on receiving
their costs they were desirous to part in good humour.  But Mr. Pickwick
was so furious at being invited to shake hands with them, that he again
broke out with coarse abuse, "Robbers!" "Robbers!" calling it after them
down the stairs.  