 can hardly be conceived. In lieu of
whip, he carried in his hand a great gold-headed cane, as large as any
footman carries in these days, and his various modes of holding this
unwieldy weapon--now upright before his face like the sabre of a
horse-soldier, now over his shoulder like a musket, now between
his finger and thumb, but always in some uncouth and awkward
fashion--contributed in no small degree to the absurdity of his
appearance. Stiff, lank, and solemn, dressed in an unusual manner,
and ostentatiously exhibiting--whether by design or accident--all his
peculiarities of carriage, gesture, and conduct, all the qualities,
natural and artificial, in which he differed from other men; he might
have moved the sternest looker-on to laughter, and fully provoked the
smiles and whispered jests which greeted his departure from the Maypole
inn.

Quite unconscious, however, of the effect he produced, he trotted on
beside his secretary, talking to himself nearly all the way, until they
came within a mile or two of London, when now and then some passenger
went by who knew him by sight, and pointed him out to some one else, and
perhaps stood looking after him, or cried in jest or earnest as it might
be, 'Hurrah Geordie! No Popery!' At which he would gravely pull off his
hat, and bow. When they reached the town and rode along the streets,
these notices became more frequent; some laughed, some hissed, some
turned their heads and smiled, some wondered who he was, some ran along
the pavement by his side and cheered. When this happened in a crush of
carts and chairs and coaches, he would make a dead stop, and pulling
off his hat, cry, 'Gentlemen, No Popery!' to which the gentlemen would
respond with lusty voices, and with three times three; and then, on he
would go again with a score or so of the raggedest, following at his
horse's heels, and shouting till their throats were parched.

The old ladies too--there were a great many old ladies in the streets,
and these all knew him. Some of them--not those of the highest rank,
but such as sold fruit from baskets and carried burdens--clapped their
shrivelled hands, and raised a weazen, piping, shrill 'Hurrah, my
lord.' Others waved their hands or handkerchiefs, or shook their fans
or parasols, or threw up windows and called in haste to those within,
to come and see. All these marks of popular esteem, he received with
profound gravity and respect; bowing very low, and so frequently that
his hat was more off his head than on; and looking up at the houses as
he passed along, with the air of one who was making a public entry, and
yet was not puffed up or proud.

So they rode (to the deep and unspeakable disgust of John Grueby) the
whole length of Whitechapel, Leadenhall Street, and Cheapside, and into
St Paul's Churchyard. Arriving close to the cathedral, he halted; spoke
to Gashford; and looking upward at its lofty dome, shook his head, as
though he said, 'The Church in Danger!' Then to be sure, the bystanders
stretched their throats indeed; and he went on again with mighty
acclamations from the mob, and lower bows than ever.

So along the Strand, up Swallow Street, into the Oxford Road, and thence
to his house in Welbeck Street, near Cavendish Square, whither he was
attended by a few dozen idlers; of whom he took leave on the steps with
this brief parting, 'Gentlemen, No Popery. Good day. God bless you.'
This being rather a shorter address than they expected, was received
with some displeasure, and cries of 'A speech! a speech!' which might
have been complied with, but that John Grueby, making a mad charge upon
them with all three horses, on his way to the stables, caused them to
disperse into the adjoining fields, where they presently fell to
pitch and toss, chuck-farthing, odd or even, dog-fighting, and other
Protestant recreations.

In the afternoon Lord George came forth again, dressed in a black velvet
coat, and trousers and waistcoat of the Gordon plaid, all of the same
Quaker cut; and in this costume, which made him look a dozen times more
strange and singular than before, went down on foot to Westminster.
Gashford, meanwhile, bestirred himself in business matters; with which
he was still engaged when, shortly after dusk, John Grueby entered and
announced a visitor.

'Let him come in,' said Gashford.

'Here! come in!' growled John to somebody without; 'You're a Protestant,
an't you?'

'I should think so,' replied a deep, gruff voice.

'You've the looks of it,' said John Grueby. 'I'd have known you for one,
anywhere.' With which remark he gave the visitor admission, retired, and
shut the door.

The man who now confronted Gashford, was a squat, thickset personage,
with a low, retreating forehead, a coarse shock head of hair, and eyes
so small and near together, that his broken nose alone seemed to
prevent their meeting and fusing into one of the usual size. A dingy
handkerchief twisted like a cord about his neck, left its great veins
exposed to view, and they were swollen and starting, as though with
gulping down strong passions, malice, and ill-will. His dress was of
threadbare velveteen--