as still unbound,
and, without any manifestation of impatience, disappointment, or
surprise, gently relapsed into the condition from which he had so
imperfectly recovered.

Mr Haredale tied his horse to the trunk of a tree, and grasping his
companion's arm, stole softly along the footpath, and into what had
been the garden of his house. He stopped for an instant to look upon its
smoking walls, and at the stars that shone through roof and floor upon
the heap of crumbling ashes. Solomon glanced timidly in his face, but
his lips were tightly pressed together, a resolute and stern expression
sat upon his brow, and not a tear, a look, or gesture indicating grief,
escaped him.

He drew his sword; felt for a moment in his breast, as though he carried
other arms about him; then grasping Solomon by the wrist again, went
with a cautious step all round the house. He looked into every doorway
and gap in the wall; retraced his steps at every rustling of the air
among the leaves; and searched in every shadowed nook with outstretched
hands. Thus they made the circuit of the building: but they returned
to the spot from which they had set out, without encountering any human
being, or finding the least trace of any concealed straggler.

After a short pause, Mr Haredale shouted twice or thrice. Then cried
aloud, 'Is there any one in hiding here, who knows my voice! There is
nothing to fear now. If any of my people are near, I entreat them
to answer!' He called them all by name; his voice was echoed in many
mournful tones; then all was silent as before.

They were standing near the foot of the turret, where the alarm-bell
hung. The fire had raged there, and the floors had been sawn, and hewn,
and beaten down, besides. It was open to the night; but a part of the
staircase still remained, winding upward from a great mound of dust and
cinders. Fragments of the jagged and broken steps offered an insecure
and giddy footing here and there, and then were lost again, behind
protruding angles of the wall, or in the deep shadows cast upon it by
other portions of the ruin; for by this time the moon had risen, and
shone brightly.

As they stood here, listening to the echoes as they died away, and
hoping in vain to hear a voice they knew, some of the ashes in this
turret slipped and rolled down. Startled by the least noise in that
melancholy place, Solomon looked up in his companion's face, and saw
that he had turned towards the spot, and that he watched and listened
keenly.

He covered the little man's mouth with his hand, and looked again.
Instantly, with kindling eyes, he bade him on his life keep still, and
neither speak nor move. Then holding his breath, and stooping down,
he stole into the turret, with his drawn sword in his hand, and
disappeared.

Terrified to be left there by himself, under such desolate
circumstances, and after all he had seen and heard that night, Solomon
would have followed, but there had been something in Mr Haredale's
manner and his look, the recollection of which held him spellbound. He
stood rooted to the spot; and scarcely venturing to breathe, looked up
with mingled fear and wonder.

Again the ashes slipped and rolled--very, very softly--again--and then
again, as though they crumbled underneath the tread of a stealthy foot.
And now a figure was dimly visible; climbing very softly; and often
stopping to look down; now it pursued its difficult way; and now it was
hidden from the view again.

It emerged once more, into the shadowy and uncertain light--higher now,
but not much, for the way was steep and toilsome, and its progress very
slow. What phantom of the brain did he pursue; and why did he look down
so constantly? He knew he was alone. Surely his mind was not affected by
that night's loss and agony. He was not about to throw himself headlong
from the summit of the tottering wall. Solomon turned sick, and clasped
his hands. His limbs trembled beneath him, and a cold sweat broke out
upon his pallid face.

If he complied with Mr Haredale's last injunction now, it was because he
had not the power to speak or move. He strained his gaze, and fixed it
on a patch of moonlight, into which, if he continued to ascend, he must
soon emerge. When he appeared there, he would try to call to him.

Again the ashes slipped and crumbled; some stones rolled down, and fell
with a dull, heavy sound upon the ground below. He kept his eyes upon
the piece of moonlight. The figure was coming on, for its shadow was
already thrown upon the wall. Now it appeared--and now looked round at
him--and now--

The horror-stricken clerk uttered a scream that pierced the air, and
cried, 'The ghost! The ghost!'

Long before the echo of his cry had died away, another form rushed out
into the light, flung itself upon the foremost one, knelt down upon its
breast, and clutched its throat with both hands.

'Villain!' cried Mr Haredale, in a terrible voice--for it was he. 'Dead
and buried, as all men supposed through your infernal arts, but reserved
by Heaven for this--at last--at last I have you. You, whose hands are
red with my brother's blood, and that of his faith