eely from the wound, and trickled down his coat. He
turned directly, and rushing up the steps with a boldness and passion
which made them all fall back, demanded:

'Who did that? Show me the man who hit me.'

Not a soul moved; except some in the rear who slunk off, and, escaping
to the other side of the way, looked on like indifferent spectators.

'Who did that?' he repeated. 'Show me the man who did it. Dog, was it
you? It was your deed, if not your hand--I know you.'

He threw himself on Gashford as he said the words, and hurled him to the
ground. There was a sudden motion in the crowd, and some laid hands upon
him, but his sword was out, and they fell off again.

'My lord--Sir John,'--he cried, 'draw, one of you--you are responsible
for this outrage, and I look to you. Draw, if you are gentlemen.' With
that he struck Sir John upon the breast with the flat of his weapon,
and with a burning face and flashing eyes stood upon his guard; alone,
before them all.

For an instant, for the briefest space of time the mind can readily
conceive, there was a change in Sir John's smooth face, such as no man
ever saw there. The next moment, he stepped forward, and laid one hand
on Mr Haredale's arm, while with the other he endeavoured to appease the
crowd.

'My dear friend, my good Haredale, you are blinded with passion--it's
very natural, extremely natural--but you don't know friends from foes.'

'I know them all, sir, I can distinguish well--' he retorted, almost mad
with rage. 'Sir John, Lord George--do you hear me? Are you cowards?'

'Never mind, sir,' said a man, forcing his way between and pushing him
towards the stairs with friendly violence, 'never mind asking that. For
God's sake, get away. What CAN you do against this number? And there are
as many more in the next street, who'll be round directly,'--indeed they
began to pour in as he said the words--'you'd be giddy from that cut, in
the first heat of a scuffle. Now do retire, sir, or take my word for it
you'll be worse used than you would be if every man in the crowd was a
woman, and that woman Bloody Mary. Come, sir, make haste--as quick as
you can.'

Mr Haredale, who began to turn faint and sick, felt how sensible
this advice was, and descended the steps with his unknown friend's
assistance. John Grueby (for John it was) helped him into the boat, and
giving her a shove off, which sent her thirty feet into the tide, bade
the waterman pull away like a Briton; and walked up again as composedly
as if he had just landed.

There was at first a slight disposition on the part of the mob to resent
this interference; but John looking particularly strong and cool, and
wearing besides Lord George's livery, they thought better of it, and
contented themselves with sending a shower of small missiles after the
boat, which plashed harmlessly in the water; for she had by this time
cleared the bridge, and was darting swiftly down the centre of the
stream.

From this amusement, they proceeded to giving Protestant knocks at the
doors of private houses, breaking a few lamps, and assaulting some stray
constables. But, it being whispered that a detachment of Life Guards had
been sent for, they took to their heels with great expedition, and left
the street quite clear.



Chapter 44


When the concourse separated, and, dividing into chance clusters, drew
off in various directions, there still remained upon the scene of the
late disturbance, one man. This man was Gashford, who, bruised by his
late fall, and hurt in a much greater degree by the indignity he had
undergone, and the exposure of which he had been the victim, limped up
and down, breathing curses and threats of vengeance.

It was not the secretary's nature to waste his wrath in words. While he
vented the froth of his malevolence in those effusions, he kept a steady
eye on two men, who, having disappeared with the rest when the alarm was
spread, had since returned, and were now visible in the moonlight, at no
great distance, as they walked to and fro, and talked together.

He made no move towards them, but waited patiently on the dark side of
the street, until they were tired of strolling backwards and forwards
and walked away in company. Then he followed, but at some distance:
keeping them in view, without appearing to have that object, or being
seen by them.

They went up Parliament Street, past Saint Martin's church, and away by
Saint Giles's to Tottenham Court Road, at the back of which, upon
the western side, was then a place called the Green Lanes. This was a
retired spot, not of the choicest kind, leading into the fields. Great
heaps of ashes; stagnant pools, overgrown with rank grass and duckweed;
broken turnstiles; and the upright posts of palings long since carried
off for firewood, which menaced all heedless walkers with their jagged
and rusty nails; were the leading features of the landscape: while here
and there a donkey, or a ragged horse, tethered to a stake, and cropping
off a wretched meal from the coarse stunted turf, were quite in keeping
with the scene, and would have suggested (if the houses had not done so,
sufficiently