in this act, we
part on happier terms than we have lived for many a day.'

He placed her in his arms, and would have left the room, but that he was
stopped in his passage to the door by a great noise at a distance, which
made them start and pause.

It was a loud shouting, mingled with boisterous acclamations, that rent
the very air. It drew nearer and nearer every moment, and approached
so rapidly, that, even while they listened, it burst into a deafening
confusion of sounds at the street corner.

'This must be stopped--quieted,' said Mr Haredale, hastily. 'We should
have foreseen this, and provided against it. I will go out to them at
once.'

But, before he could reach the door, and before Edward could catch up
his hat and follow him, they were again arrested by a loud shriek from
above-stairs: and the locksmith's wife, bursting in, and fairly running
into Mr Haredale's arms, cried out:

'She knows it all, dear sir!--she knows it all! We broke it out to her
by degrees, and she is quite prepared.' Having made this communication,
and furthermore thanked Heaven with great fervour and heartiness, the
good lady, according to the custom of matrons, on all occasions of
excitement, fainted away directly.

They ran to the window, drew up the sash, and looked into the crowded
street. Among a dense mob of persons, of whom not one was for an instant
still, the locksmith's ruddy face and burly form could be descried,
beating about as though he was struggling with a rough sea. Now, he was
carried back a score of yards, now onward nearly to the door, now
back again, now forced against the opposite houses, now against those
adjoining his own: now carried up a flight of steps, and greeted by the
outstretched hands of half a hundred men, while the whole tumultuous
concourse stretched their throats, and cheered with all their might.
Though he was really in a fair way to be torn to pieces in the general
enthusiasm, the locksmith, nothing discomposed, echoed their shouts till
he was as hoarse as they, and in a glow of joy and right good-humour,
waved his hat until the daylight shone between its brim and crown.

But in all the bandyings from hand to hand, and strivings to and fro,
and sweepings here and there, which--saving that he looked more jolly
and more radiant after every struggle--troubled his peace of mind no
more than if he had been a straw upon the water's surface, he never once
released his firm grasp of an arm, drawn tight through his. He sometimes
turned to clap this friend upon the back, or whisper in his ear a word
of staunch encouragement, or cheer him with a smile; but his great care
was to shield him from the pressure, and force a passage for him to the
Golden Key. Passive and timid, scared, pale, and wondering, and gazing
at the throng as if he were newly risen from the dead, and felt himself
a ghost among the living, Barnaby--not Barnaby in the spirit, but in
flesh and blood, with pulses, sinews, nerves, and beating heart, and
strong affections--clung to his stout old friend, and followed where he
led.

And thus, in course of time, they reached the door, held ready for their
entrance by no unwilling hands. Then slipping in, and shutting out
the crowd by main force, Gabriel stood between Mr Haredale and Edward
Chester, and Barnaby, rushing up the stairs, fell upon his knees beside
his mother's bed.

'Such is the blessed end, sir,' cried the panting locksmith, to Mr
Haredale, 'of the best day's work we ever did. The rogues! it's been
hard fighting to get away from 'em. I almost thought, once or twice,
they'd have been too much for us with their kindness!'

They had striven, all the previous day, to rescue Barnaby from his
impending fate. Failing in their attempts, in the first quarter to which
they addressed themselves, they renewed them in another. Failing there,
likewise, they began afresh at midnight; and made their way, not only to
the judge and jury who had tried him, but to men of influence at court,
to the young Prince of Wales, and even to the ante-chamber of the King
himself. Successful, at last, in awakening an interest in his favour,
and an inclination to inquire more dispassionately into his case, they
had had an interview with the minister, in his bed, so late as eight
o'clock that morning. The result of a searching inquiry (in which
they, who had known the poor fellow from his childhood, did other good
service, besides bringing it about) was, that between eleven and twelve
o'clock, a free pardon to Barnaby Rudge was made out and signed, and
entrusted to a horse-soldier for instant conveyance to the place of
execution. This courier reached the spot just as the cart appeared in
sight; and Barnaby being carried back to jail, Mr Haredale, assured that
all was safe, had gone straight from Bloomsbury Square to the Golden
Key, leaving to Gabriel the grateful task of bringing him home in
triumph.

'I needn't say,' observed the locksmith, when he had shaken hands with
all the males in the house, and hugged all the females, five-and-forty
times, at least, 'that, except among ourselves, I didn't want to make a
triumph of it.