n members in the House of Representatives at Washington.  ‘I
have a great respect for the chair,’ quoth North Carolina, ‘I have a
great respect for the chair as an officer of the house, and a great
respect for him personally; nothing but that respect prevents me from
rushing to the table and tearing that petition which has just been
presented for the abolition of slavery in the district of Columbia, to
pieces.’—‘I warn the abolitionists,’ says South Carolina, ‘ignorant,
infuriated barbarians as they are, that if chance shall throw any of them
into our hands, he may expect a felon’s death.’—‘Let an abolitionist come
within the borders of South Carolina,’ cries a third; mild Carolina’s
colleague; ‘and if we can catch him, we will try him, and notwithstanding
the interference of all the governments on earth, including the Federal
government, we will HANG him.’

Public opinion has made this law.—It has declared that in Washington, in
that city which takes its name from the father of American liberty, any
justice of the peace may bind with fetters any negro passing down the
street and thrust him into jail: no offence on the black man’s part is
necessary.  The justice says, ‘I choose to think this man a runaway:’ and
locks him up.  Public opinion impowers the man of law when this is done,
to advertise the negro in the newspapers, warning his owner to come and
claim him, or he will be sold to pay the jail fees.  But supposing he is
a free black, and has no owner, it may naturally be presumed that he is
set at liberty.  No: HE IS SOLD TO RECOMPENSE HIS JAILER.  This has been
done again, and again, and again.  He has no means of proving his
freedom; has no adviser, messenger, or assistance of any sort or kind; no
investigation into his case is made, or inquiry instituted.  He, a free
man, who may have served for years, and bought his liberty, is thrown
into jail on no process, for no crime, and on no pretence of crime: and
is sold to pay the jail fees.  This seems incredible, even of America,
but it is the law.

Public opinion is deferred to, in such cases as the following: which is
headed in the newspapers:—

                           ‘_Interesting Law-Case_.

    ‘An interesting case is now on trial in the Supreme Court, arising
    out of the following facts.  A gentleman residing in Maryland had
    allowed an aged pair of his slaves, substantial though not legal
    freedom for several years.  While thus living, a daughter was born to
    them, who grew up in the same liberty, until she married a free
    negro, and went with him to reside in Pennsylvania.  They had several
    children, and lived unmolested until the original owner died, when
    his heir attempted to regain them; but the magistrate before whom
    they were brought, decided that he had no jurisdiction in the case.
    _The owner seized the woman and her children in the night_, _and
    carried them to Maryland_.’

‘Cash for negroes,’ ‘cash for negroes,’ ‘cash for negroes,’ is the
heading of advertisements in great capitals down the long columns of the
crowded journals.  Woodcuts of a runaway negro with manacled hands,
crouching beneath a bluff pursuer in top boots, who, having caught him,
grasps him by the throat, agreeably diversify the pleasant text.  The
leading article protests against ‘that abominable and hellish doctrine of
abolition, which is repugnant alike to every law of God and nature.’  The
delicate mamma, who smiles her acquiescence in this sprightly writing as
she reads the paper in her cool piazza, quiets her youngest child who
clings about her skirts, by promising the boy ‘a whip to beat the little
niggers with.’—But the negroes, little and big, are protected by public
opinion.

Let us try this public opinion by another test, which is important in
three points of view: first, as showing how desperately timid of the
public opinion slave-owners are, in their delicate descriptions of
fugitive slaves in widely circulated newspapers; secondly, as showing how
perfectly contented the slaves are, and how very seldom they run away;
thirdly, as exhibiting their entire freedom from scar, or blemish, or any
mark of cruel infliction, as their pictures are drawn, not by lying
abolitionists, but by their own truthful masters.

The following are a few specimens of the advertisements in the public
papers.  It is only four years since the oldest among them appeared; and
others of the same nature continue to be published every day, in shoals.

    ‘Ran away, Negress Caroline.  Had on a collar with one prong turned
    down.’

    ‘Ran away, a black woman, Betsy.  Had an iron bar on her right leg.’

    ‘Ran away, the negro Manuel.  Much marked with irons.’

    ‘Ran away, the negress Fanny.  Had on an iron band about her neck.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro boy about twelve years old.  Had round his neck a
    chain dog-collar with “De Lampert” engraved on it.’

    ‘Ran away, the negro Hown.  Has a ring of iron on his left foot.
    Also, Grise, _his wife_, having a ring and chain on the left leg.’

    ‘Ran away, a negro boy named James.  Said boy was ironed when he