Produced by Geetu Melwani and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









CAPTAIN BOLDHEART

BY

CHARLES DICKENS

ILLUSTRATED BY
BEATRICE PEARSE


[Illustration: "Invited them to Breakfast"]




CAPTAIN BOLDHEART
& THE LATIN-GRAMMAR
MASTER

A HOLIDAY ROMANCE FROM
THE PEN OF LIEUT-COL.
ROBIN REDFORTH
AGED 9.

BY

CHARLES DICKENS

LONDON: CONSTABLE AND CO. LTD.




FOREWORD


The story contained herein was written by Charles Dickens in 1867. It is
the third of four stories entitled "Holiday Romance" and was published
originally in a children's magazine in America. It purports to be
written by a child aged nine. It was republished in England in "All the
Year Round" in 1868. For this and four other Christmas pieces Dickens
received £1,000.

"Holiday Romance" was published in book form by Messrs Chapman & Hall in
1874, with "Edwin Drood" and other stories.

For this reprint the text of the story as it appeared in "All the Year
Round" has been followed.




CAPTAIN BOLDHEART AND THE LATIN-GRAMMAR MASTER


The subject of our present narrative would appear to have devoted
himself to the Pirate profession at a comparatively early age. We find
him in command of a splendid schooner of one hundred guns, loaded to the
muzzle, 'ere yet he had had a party in honour of his tenth birthday.

It seems that our hero, considering himself spited by a
Latin-Grammar-Master, demanded the satisfaction due from one man of
honour to another. Not getting it, he privately withdrew his haughty
spirit from such low company, bought a second-hand pocket-pistol, folded
up some sandwiches in a paper bag, made a bottle of Spanish
liquorice-water, and entered on a career of valour.

It were tedious to follow Boldheart (for such was his name) through the
commencing stages of his history. Suffice it that we find him bearing
the rank of Captain Boldheart, reclining in full uniform on a crimson
hearth-rug spread out upon the quarter-deck of his schooner the Beauty,
in the China Seas. It was a lovely evening, and as his crew lay grouped
about him, he favoured them with the following melody:

     O landsmen are folly!
     O Pirates are jolly!
     O Diddleum Dolly,
                      Di!
         (_Chorus_) Heave yo.

The soothing effect of these animated sounds floating over the waters,
as the common sailors united their rough voices to take up the rich
tones of Boldheart, may be more easily conceived than described.

It was under these circumstances that the lookout at the masthead gave
the word, "Whales!"

All was now activity.

"Where away?" cried Captain Boldheart, starting up.

"On the larboard bow, sir," replied the fellow at the masthead, touching
his hat. For such was the height of discipline on board of the Beauty,
that even at that height he was obliged to mind it or be shot through
the head.

[Illustration: "His crew lay grouped around him"]

"This adventure belongs to me," said Boldheart. "Boy, my harpoon. Let
no man follow;" and leaping alone into his boat, the captain rowed with
admirable dexterity in the direction of the monster.

All was now excitement.

"He nears him!" said an elderly seaman, following the captain through
his spy-glass.

"He strikes him!" said another seaman, a mere stripling, but also with a
spy-glass.

"He tows him towards us!" said another seaman, a man in the full vigour
of life, but also with a spy-glass.

In fact the captain was seen approaching, with the huge bulk following.
We will not dwell on the deafening cries of "Boldheart! Boldheart!" with
which he was received, when, carelessly leaping on the quarter-deck, he
presented his prize to his men. They afterwards made two thousand four
hundred and seventeen pound ten and sixpence by it.

Ordering the sails to be braced up, the captain now stood W.N.W. The
Beauty flew rather than floated over the dark blue waters. Nothing
particular occurred for a fortnight, except taking, with considerable
slaughter, four Spanish galleons, and a Snow from South America, all
richly laden. Inaction began to tell upon the spirits of the men.
Captain Boldheart called all hands aft, and said:

"My lads, I hear there are discontented ones among ye. Let any such
stand forth."

After some murmuring, in which the expressions, "Aye, aye, sir!" "Union
Jack!" "Avast," "Starboard," "Port," "Bowsprit," and similar indications
of a mutinous undercurrent, though subdued, were audible, Bill Boozey,
captain of the foretop, came out from the rest. His form was that of a
giant, but he quailed under the captain's eye.

"What are your wrongs?" said the captain.

"Why, d'ye see, Captain Boldheart," replied the towering mariner, "I've
sailed man and boy for many a year, but I never yet know'd the milk
served out for the ship's company's teas to be so sour as 'tis aboard
this craft."

[Illustration: THE RESCUE OF WILLIAM BOOZEY.]

At this moment the thrilling cry, "Man overboard!" announced to the
astonished crew that Boozey, in stepping back, as the captain (in mere
thoughtfuln