hestnuts on the fire, and Mr. Cratchet served round some hot sweet
stuff out of a jug as they closed round the fire, and said, "A Merry
Christmas to us all, my dears, God bless us." "God bless us, every one,"
echoed Tiny Tim, and then they drank each other's health, and Mr.
Scrooge's health, and told stories and sang songs.

  [Illustration: TINY TIM.
  TINY TIM WAS PERCHED ON HIS FATHER'S SHOULDER.]

Now in one of Mr. Scrooge's dreams on Christmas eve a Christmas spirit
showed him his clerk's home; he saw them all, heard them drink his
health, and he took special note of Tiny Tim himself.

How Mr. Scrooge spent Christmas day we do not know; but on Christmas
night he had more dreams, and the spirit took him again to his clerk's
poor home.

Upstairs, the father, with his face hidden in his hands, sat beside a
little bed, on which lay a tiny figure, white and still. "Tiny Tim died
because his father was too poor to give him what was necessary to make
him well; _you_ kept him poor," said the dream-spirit to Mr. Scrooge.
The father kissed the cold, little face on the bed, and went
down-stairs, where the sprays of holly still remained about the humble
room; and taking his hat, went out, with a wistful glance at the little
crutch in the corner as he shut the door. Mr. Scrooge saw all this, but,
wonderful to relate, he woke the next morning feeling as he had never
felt in his life before.

"Why, I am as light as a feather, and as happy as an angel, and as merry
as a schoolboy," he said to himself. "I hope everybody had a merry
Christmas, and here's a happy New Year to all the world."

Poor Bob Cratchet crept into the office a few minutes late, expecting to
be scolded for it, but his master was there with his back to a good
fire, and actually smiling, and he shook hands with his clerk, telling
him heartily he was going to raise his salary, and asking quite
affectionately after Tiny Tim! "And mind you make up a good fire in your
room before you set to work, Bob," he said, as he closed his own door.

Bob could hardly believe his eyes and ears, but it was all true. Such
doings as they had on New Year's day had never been seen before in the
Cratchet's home, nor such a turkey as Mr. Scrooge sent them for dinner.
Tiny Tim had his share too, for Tiny Tim did not die, not a bit of it.
Mr. Scrooge was a second father to him from that day, he wanted for
nothing, and grew up strong and hearty. Mr. Scrooge loved him, and well
he might, for was it not Tiny Tim who had unconsciously, through the
Christmas dream-spirit, touched his hard heart, and caused him to become
a good and happy man?




LITTLE DOMBEY.


Little Dombey was the son of a rich city merchant, a cold, stern, and
pompous man, whose life and interests were entirely absorbed in his
business. He was so desirous of having a son to associate with himself
in the business, and make the house once more Dombey & Son in fact, as
it was in name, that the little boy who was at last born to him was
eagerly welcomed.

There was a pretty little girl six years old, but her father had taken
little notice of her. Of what use was a girl to Dombey & Son? She could
not go into the business.

Little Dombey's mother died when he was born, but the event did not
greatly disturb Mr. Dombey; and since his son lived, what did it matter
to him that his little daughter Florence was breaking her heart in
loneliness for the mother who had loved and cherished her!

During the first few months of his life, little Dombey grew and
flourished; and as soon as he was old enough to take notice, there was
no one he loved so well as his sister Florence.

In due time the baby was taken to church, and baptized by the name of
Paul (his father's name). A grand and stately christening it was,
followed by a grand and stately feast; and little Paul was declared by
his godmother to be "an angel, and the perfect picture of his own papa."

But from that time Paul seemed to waste and pine; his healthy and
thriving babyhood had received a check, and as for illnesses, "There
never was a blessed dear so put upon," his nurse said.

By the time he was five years old, though he had the prettiest, sweetest
little face in the world, there was always a patient, wistful look upon
it, and he was thin and tiny and delicate. He soon got tired, and had
such old-fashioned ways of speaking and doing things, that his nurse
often shook her head sadly over him.

When he sat in his little arm-chair with his father, after dinner, they
were a strange pair,--so like, and so unlike each other.

"What is money, papa?" asked Paul on one of these occasions, crossing
his tiny arms as well as he could--just as his father's were crossed.

"Why, gold, silver and copper; you know what it is well enough, Paul,"
answered his father.

"Oh yes; I mean, what can money do?"

"Anything, everything--almost," replied Mr. Dombey, taking one of his
son's wee hands.

Paul drew his hand gently away. "It didn't save me my mamma, and it
can't make me strong and big," said he.

"Why, you _are_ strong and big, as big as such little people usually
are," returned Mr. Dombey.

"No," r