rthly things.

'Martha--' said the locksmith.

'I hear you, Varden,' said his wife, without rising to the surface.

'I am sorry, my dear, you have such an objection to the Maypole and old
John, for otherways as it's a very fine morning, and Saturday's not
a busy day with us, we might have all three gone to Chigwell in the
chaise, and had quite a happy day of it.'

Mrs Varden immediately closed the Manual, and bursting into tears,
requested to be led upstairs.

'What is the matter now, Martha?' inquired the locksmith.

To which Martha rejoined, 'Oh! don't speak to me,' and protested in
agony that if anybody had told her so, she wouldn't have believed it.

'But, Martha,' said Gabriel, putting himself in the way as she was
moving off with the aid of Dolly's shoulder, 'wouldn't have believed
what? Tell me what's wrong now. Do tell me. Upon my soul I don't know.
Do you know, child? Damme!' cried the locksmith, plucking at his wig in
a kind of frenzy, 'nobody does know, I verily believe, but Miggs!'

'Miggs,' said Mrs Varden faintly, and with symptoms of approaching
incoherence, 'is attached to me, and that is sufficient to draw down
hatred upon her in this house. She is a comfort to me, whatever she may
be to others.'

'She's no comfort to me,' cried Gabriel, made bold by despair. 'She's
the misery of my life. She's all the plagues of Egypt in one.'

'She's considered so, I have no doubt,' said Mrs Varden. 'I was prepared
for that; it's natural; it's of a piece with the rest. When you taunt
me as you do to my face, how can I wonder that you taunt her behind her
back!' And here the incoherence coming on very strong, Mrs Varden wept,
and laughed, and sobbed, and shivered, and hiccoughed, and choked; and
said she knew it was very foolish but she couldn't help it; and that
when she was dead and gone, perhaps they would be sorry for it--which
really under the circumstances did not appear quite so probable as she
seemed to think--with a great deal more to the same effect. In a word,
she passed with great decency through all the ceremonies incidental to
such occasions; and being supported upstairs, was deposited in a highly
spasmodic state on her own bed, where Miss Miggs shortly afterwards
flung herself upon the body.

The philosophy of all this was, that Mrs Varden wanted to go to
Chigwell; that she did not want to make any concession or explanation;
that she would only go on being implored and entreated so to do; and
that she would accept no other terms. Accordingly, after a vast amount
of moaning and crying upstairs, and much damping of foreheads, and
vinegaring of temples, and hartshorning of noses, and so forth;
and after most pathetic adjurations from Miggs, assisted by warm
brandy-and-water not over-weak, and divers other cordials, also of
a stimulating quality, administered at first in teaspoonfuls and
afterwards in increasing doses, and of which Miss Miggs herself partook
as a preventive measure (for fainting is infectious); after all these
remedies, and many more too numerous to mention, but not to take,
had been applied; and many verbal consolations, moral, religious, and
miscellaneous, had been super-added thereto; the locksmith humbled
himself, and the end was gained.

'If it's only for the sake of peace and quietness, father,' said Dolly,
urging him to go upstairs.

'Oh, Doll, Doll,' said her good-natured father. 'If you ever have a
husband of your own--'

Dolly glanced at the glass.

'--Well, WHEN you have,' said the locksmith, 'never faint, my darling.
More domestic unhappiness has come of easy fainting, Doll, than from all
the greater passions put together. Remember that, my dear, if you would
be really happy, which you never can be, if your husband isn't. And a
word in your ear, my precious. Never have a Miggs about you!'

With this advice he kissed his blooming daughter on the cheek, and
slowly repaired to Mrs Varden's room; where that lady, lying all pale
and languid on her couch, was refreshing herself with a sight of her
last new bonnet, which Miggs, as a means of calming her scattered
spirits, displayed to the best advantage at her bedside.

'Here's master, mim,' said Miggs. 'Oh, what a happiness it is when man
and wife come round again! Oh gracious, to think that him and her should
ever have a word together!' In the energy of these sentiments, which
were uttered as an apostrophe to the Heavens in general, Miss Miggs
perched the bonnet on the top of her own head, and folding her hands,
turned on her tears.

'I can't help it,' cried Miggs. 'I couldn't, if I was to be drownded in
'em. She has such a forgiving spirit! She'll forget all that has passed,
and go along with you, sir--Oh, if it was to the world's end, she'd go
along with you.'

Mrs Varden with a faint smile gently reproved her attendant for this
enthusiasm, and reminded her at the same time that she was far too
unwell to venture out that day.

'Oh no, you're not, mim, indeed you're not,' said Miggs; 'I repeal to
master; master knows you're not, mim. The hair, and motion of the shay,
will do you good, mim, and you must not give way, you must not raly. She