the whole is
supported on beams and pillars resting on a dirty barge, but a few inches
above the water’s edge: and in the narrow space between this upper
structure and this barge’s deck, are the furnace fires and machinery,
open at the sides to every wind that blows, and every storm of rain it
drives along its path.

Passing one of these boats at night, and seeing the great body of fire,
exposed as I have just described, that rages and roars beneath the frail
pile of painted wood: the machinery, not warded off or guarded in any
way, but doing its work in the midst of the crowd of idlers and emigrants
and children, who throng the lower deck: under the management, too, of
reckless men whose acquaintance with its mysteries may have been of six
months’ standing: one feels directly that the wonder is, not that there
should be so many fatal accidents, but that any journey should be safely
made.

Within, there is one long narrow cabin, the whole length of the boat;
from which the state-rooms open, on both sides.  A small portion of it at
the stern is partitioned off for the ladies; and the bar is at the
opposite extreme.  There is a long table down the centre, and at either
end a stove.  The washing apparatus is forward, on the deck.  It is a
little better than on board the canal boat, but not much.  In all modes
of travelling, the American customs, with reference to the means of
personal cleanliness and wholesome ablution, are extremely negligent and
filthy; and I strongly incline to the belief that a considerable amount
of illness is referable to this cause.

We are to be on board the Messenger three days: arriving at Cincinnati
(barring accidents) on Monday morning.  There are three meals a day.
Breakfast at seven, dinner at half-past twelve, supper about six.  At
each, there are a great many small dishes and plates upon the table, with
very little in them; so that although there is every appearance of a
mighty ‘spread,’ there is seldom really more than a joint: except for
those who fancy slices of beet-root, shreds of dried beef, complicated
entanglements of yellow pickle; maize, Indian corn, apple-sauce, and
pumpkin.

Some people fancy all these little dainties together (and sweet preserves
beside), by way of relish to their roast pig.  They are generally those
dyspeptic ladies and gentlemen who eat unheard-of quantities of hot corn
bread (almost as good for the digestion as a kneaded pin-cushion), for
breakfast, and for supper.  Those who do not observe this custom, and who
help themselves several times instead, usually suck their knives and
forks meditatively, until they have decided what to take next: then pull
them out of their mouths: put them in the dish; help themselves; and fall
to work again.  At dinner, there is nothing to drink upon the table, but
great jugs full of cold water.  Nobody says anything, at any meal, to
anybody.  All the passengers are very dismal, and seem to have tremendous
secrets weighing on their minds.  There is no conversation, no laughter,
no cheerfulness, no sociality, except in spitting; and that is done in
silent fellowship round the stove, when the meal is over.  Every man sits
down, dull and languid; swallows his fare as if breakfasts, dinners, and
suppers, were necessities of nature never to be coupled with recreation
or enjoyment; and having bolted his food in a gloomy silence, bolts
himself, in the same state.  But for these animal observances, you might
suppose the whole male portion of the company to be the melancholy ghosts
of departed book-keepers, who had fallen dead at the desk: such is their
weary air of business and calculation.  Undertakers on duty would be
sprightly beside them; and a collation of funeral-baked meats, in
comparison with these meals, would be a sparkling festivity.

The people are all alike, too.  There is no diversity of character.  They
travel about on the same errands, say and do the same things in exactly
the same manner, and follow in the same dull cheerless round.  All down
the long table, there is scarcely a man who is in anything different from
his neighbour.  It is quite a relief to have, sitting opposite, that
little girl of fifteen with the loquacious chin: who, to do her justice,
acts up to it, and fully identifies nature’s handwriting, for of all the
small chatterboxes that ever invaded the repose of drowsy ladies’ cabin,
she is the first and foremost.  The beautiful girl, who sits a little
beyond her—farther down the table there—married the young man with the
dark whiskers, who sits beyond _her_, only last month.  They are going to
settle in the very Far West, where he has lived four years, but where she
has never been.  They were both overturned in a stage-coach the other day
(a bad omen anywhere else, where overturns are not so common), and his
head, which bears the marks of a recent wound, is bound up still.  She
was hurt too, at the same time, and lay insensible for some days; bright
as her eyes are, now.

Further down still, sits a man who is going some miles beyond their place
of destination, to ‘improve’ a newly-discovered copper mine.  He c