he desired to
see. He threw himself in her way, and a very few paces brought them
close together.

He raised his hat from his head, and yielding the path, suffered her to
pass him. Then, as if the idea had but that moment occurred to him, he
turned hastily back and said in an agitated voice:

'I beg pardon--do I address Miss Haredale?'

She stopped in some confusion at being so unexpectedly accosted by a
stranger; and answered 'Yes.'

'Something told me,' he said, LOOKING a compliment to her beauty, 'that
it could be no other. Miss Haredale, I bear a name which is not unknown
to you--which it is a pride, and yet a pain to me to know, sounds
pleasantly in your ears. I am a man advanced in life, as you see. I am
the father of him whom you honour and distinguish above all other
men. May I for weighty reasons which fill me with distress, beg but a
minute's conversation with you here?'

Who that was inexperienced in deceit, and had a frank and youthful
heart, could doubt the speaker's truth--could doubt it too, when the
voice that spoke, was like the faint echo of one she knew so well, and
so much loved to hear? She inclined her head, and stopping, cast her
eyes upon the ground.

'A little more apart--among these trees. It is an old man's hand, Miss
Haredale; an honest one, believe me.'

She put hers in it as he said these words, and suffered him to lead her
to a neighbouring seat.

'You alarm me, sir,' she said in a low voice. 'You are not the bearer of
any ill news, I hope?'

'Of none that you anticipate,' he answered, sitting down beside her.
'Edward is well--quite well. It is of him I wish to speak, certainly;
but I have no misfortune to communicate.'

She bowed her head again, and made as though she would have begged him
to proceed; but said nothing.

'I am sensible that I speak to you at a disadvantage, dear Miss
Haredale. Believe me that I am not so forgetful of the feelings of my
younger days as not to know that you are little disposed to view me
with favour. You have heard me described as cold-hearted, calculating,
selfish--'

'I have never, sir,'--she interposed with an altered manner and a firmer
voice; 'I have never heard you spoken of in harsh or disrespectful
terms. You do a great wrong to Edward's nature if you believe him
capable of any mean or base proceeding.'

'Pardon me, my sweet young lady, but your uncle--'

'Nor is it my uncle's nature either,' she replied, with a heightened
colour in her cheek. 'It is not his nature to stab in the dark, nor is
it mine to love such deeds.'

She rose as she spoke, and would have left him; but he detained her with
a gentle hand, and besought her in such persuasive accents to hear him
but another minute, that she was easily prevailed upon to comply, and so
sat down again.

'And it is,' said Mr Chester, looking upward, and apostrophising the
air; 'it is this frank, ingenuous, noble nature, Ned, that you can wound
so lightly. Shame--shame upon you, boy!'

She turned towards him quickly, and with a scornful look and flashing
eyes. There were tears in Mr Chester's eyes, but he dashed them
hurriedly away, as though unwilling that his weakness should be known,
and regarded her with mingled admiration and compassion.

'I never until now,' he said, 'believed, that the frivolous actions of a
young man could move me like these of my own son. I never knew till now,
the worth of a woman's heart, which boys so lightly win, and lightly
fling away. Trust me, dear young lady, that I never until now did
know your worth; and though an abhorrence of deceit and falsehood has
impelled me to seek you out, and would have done so had you been the
poorest and least gifted of your sex, I should have lacked the fortitude
to sustain this interview could I have pictured you to my imagination as
you really are.'

Oh! If Mrs Varden could have seen the virtuous gentleman as he said
these words, with indignation sparkling from his eyes--if she could have
heard his broken, quavering voice--if she could have beheld him as he
stood bareheaded in the sunlight, and with unwonted energy poured forth
his eloquence!

With a haughty face, but pale and trembling too, Emma regarded him in
silence. She neither spoke nor moved, but gazed upon him as though she
would look into his heart.

'I throw off,' said Mr Chester, 'the restraint which natural affection
would impose on some men, and reject all bonds but those of truth and
duty. Miss Haredale, you are deceived; you are deceived by your unworthy
lover, and my unworthy son.'

Still she looked at him steadily, and still said not one word.

'I have ever opposed his professions of love for you; you will do me
the justice, dear Miss Haredale, to remember that. Your uncle and myself
were enemies in early life, and if I had sought retaliation, I might
have found it here. But as we grow older, we grow wiser--bitter, I would
fain hope--and from the first, I have opposed him in this attempt. I
foresaw the end, and would have spared you, if I could.'

'Speak plainly, sir,' she faltered. 'You deceive me, or are deceived
yourself. I do not believe you--I cannot--I should not.'

'Fir