eplied Paul, sighing; "when Florence was as little as me, she was
strong and tall, and did not get tired of playing as I do. I am so tired
sometimes, papa."

Mr. Dombey's anxiety was aroused, and the doctor was sent for to examine
Paul.

"The child is hardly so stout as we could wish," said the doctor; "his
mind is too big for his body, he thinks too much--let him try sea
air--sea air does wonders for children."

So it was arranged that Florence, Paul, and nurse should go to Brighton,
and stay in the house of a lady named Mrs. Pipchin, who kept a very
select boarding-house for children.

There is no doubt that, apart from his importance to the house of Dombey
& Son, little Paul had crept into his father's heart, cold though it
still was towards his daughter, colder than ever now, for there was in
it a sort of unacknowledged jealousy of the warm love lavished on her by
Paul, which he himself was unable to win.

Mrs. Pipchin was a marvellously ugly old lady, with a hook nose and
stern cold eyes.

"Well, Master Paul, how do you think you will like me?" said Mrs.
Pipchin, seeing the child intently regarding her.

"I don't think I shall like you at all," replied Paul, shaking his head.
"I want to go away. I do not like your house."

Paul did not like Mrs. Pipchin, but he would sit in his arm-chair and
look at her. Her ugliness seemed to fascinate him.

As the weeks went by little Paul grew more healthy-looking, but he did
not seem any stronger, and could not run about out of doors. A little
carriage was therefore got for him, in which he could be wheeled down to
the beach, where he would pass the greater part of the day. He took a
great fancy to a queer crab-faced old man, smelling of sea-weed, who
wheeled his carriage, and held long conversations with him; but Florence
was the only child companion whom he ever cared to have with him, though
he liked to watch other children playing in the distance.

"I love you, Floy," he said one day to her.

Florence laid her head against his pillow, and whispered how much
stronger he was growing.

"Oh, yes, I know, I am a great deal better," said Paul, "a very great
deal better. Listen, Floy; what is it the sea keeps saying?"

"Nothing, dear, it is only the rolling of the waves you hear."

"Yes, but they are always saying something, and always the same thing.
What place is over there, Floy?"

She told him there was another country opposite, but Paul said he did
not mean that, he meant somewhere much farther away, oh, much farther
away--and often he would break off in the midst of their talk to listen
to the sea and gaze out towards that country "farther away."

After having lived at Brighton for a year, Paul was certainly much
stronger, though still thin and delicate. And on one of his weekly
visits, Mr. Dombey explained to Mrs. Pipchin, with pompous
condescension, that Paul's weak health having kept him back in his
studies, he had made arrangements to place him at the educational
establishment of Dr. Blimber, which was close by. Florence was, for the
present, to remain under Mrs. Pipchin's care, and see her brother every
week.

Dr. Blimber's school was a great hot-house for the forcing of boy's
brains; and Dr. Blimber promised speedily to make a man of Paul.

"Shall you like to be made a man of, my son?" asked Mr. Dombey.

"I'd rather be a child and stay with Floy," answered Paul.

Miss Blimber, the doctor's daughter, a learned lady in spectacles, was
his special tutor, and from morning till night his poor little brains
were forced and crammed till his head was heavy and always had a dull
ache in it, and his small legs grew weak again--every day he looked a
little thinner and a little paler, and became more old-fashioned than
ever in his looks and ways--"old-fashioned" was a distinguishing title
which clung to him. He was gentle and polite to every one--always
looking out for small kindnesses which he might do to any inmate of the
house. "The oddest and most old-fashioned child in the world," Dr.
Blimber would say to his daughter; "but bring him on, Cornelia--bring
him on."

And Cornelia did bring him on; and Florence, seeing how pale and weary
the little fellow looked when he came to her on Saturdays, and how he
could not rest from anxiety about his lessons, would lighten his labors
a little, and ease his mind by helping him to prepare his week's work.
But one day, when his lessons were over, little Paul laid his weary and
aching head against the knee of a schoolfellow of whom he was very fond;
and the first thing he noticed when he opened his eyes was that the
window was open, his face and hair were wet with water, and that Dr.
Blimber and the usher were both standing looking at him.

"Ah, that's well," said Dr. Blimber, as Paul opened his eyes, "and how
is my little friend now?"

"Oh, quite well, thank you, sir," answered Paul, but when he got up
there seemed something the matter with the floor, and the walls were
dancing about, and Dr. Blimber's head was twice its natural size. He was
put to bed, and presently the doctor came and said he was not to do any
more lessons for the present.

In