ng road, or an uneven one; and yet
Dolly held the side of the chaise with one little hand, all the way. If
there had been an executioner behind him with an uplifted axe ready
to chop off his head if he touched that hand, Joe couldn't have helped
doing it. From putting his own hand upon it as if by chance, and taking
it away again after a minute or so, he got to riding along without
taking it off at all; as if he, the escort, were bound to do that as an
important part of his duty, and had come out for the purpose. The most
curious circumstance about this little incident was, that Dolly didn't
seem to know of it. She looked so innocent and unconscious when she
turned her eyes on Joe, that it was quite provoking.

She talked though; talked about her fright, and about Joe's coming up to
rescue her, and about her gratitude, and about her fear that she might
not have thanked him enough, and about their always being friends from
that time forth--and about all that sort of thing. And when Joe said,
not friends he hoped, Dolly was quite surprised, and said not enemies
she hoped; and when Joe said, couldn't they be something much better
than either, Dolly all of a sudden found out a star which was brighter
than all the other stars, and begged to call his attention to the same,
and was ten thousand times more innocent and unconscious than ever.

In this manner they travelled along, talking very little above a
whisper, and wishing the road could be stretched out to some dozen times
its natural length--at least that was Joe's desire--when, as they were
getting clear of the forest and emerging on the more frequented road,
they heard behind them the sound of a horse's feet at a round trot,
which growing rapidly louder as it drew nearer, elicited a scream from
Mrs Varden, and the cry 'a friend!' from the rider, who now came panting
up, and checked his horse beside them.

'This man again!' cried Dolly, shuddering.

'Hugh!' said Joe. 'What errand are you upon?'

'I come to ride back with you,' he answered, glancing covertly at the
locksmith's daughter. 'HE sent me.

'My father!' said poor Joe; adding under his breath, with a very
unfilial apostrophe, 'Will he never think me man enough to take care of
myself!'

'Aye!' returned Hugh to the first part of the inquiry. 'The roads are
not safe just now, he says, and you'd better have a companion.'

'Ride on then,' said Joe. 'I'm not going to turn yet.'

Hugh complied, and they went on again. It was his whim or humour to
ride immediately before the chaise, and from this position he constantly
turned his head, and looked back. Dolly felt that he looked at her, but
she averted her eyes and feared to raise them once, so great was the
dread with which he had inspired her.

This interruption, and the consequent wakefulness of Mrs Varden, who had
been nodding in her sleep up to this point, except for a minute or
two at a time, when she roused herself to scold the locksmith for
audaciously taking hold of her to prevent her nodding herself out of
the chaise, put a restraint upon the whispered conversation, and made
it difficult of resumption. Indeed, before they had gone another mile,
Gabriel stopped at his wife's desire, and that good lady protested she
would not hear of Joe's going a step further on any account whatever. It
was in vain for Joe to protest on the other hand that he was by no means
tired, and would turn back presently, and would see them safely past
such a point, and so forth. Mrs Varden was obdurate, and being so was
not to be overcome by mortal agency.

'Good night--if I must say it,' said Joe, sorrowfully.

'Good night,' said Dolly. She would have added, 'Take care of that man,
and pray don't trust him,' but he had turned his horse's head, and was
standing close to them. She had therefore nothing for it but to suffer
Joe to give her hand a gentle squeeze, and when the chaise had gone on
for some distance, to look back and wave it, as he still lingered on
the spot where they had parted, with the tall dark figure of Hugh beside
him.

What she thought about, going home; and whether the coach-maker held as
favourable a place in her meditations as he had occupied in the morning,
is unknown. They reached home at last--at last, for it was a long way,
made none the shorter by Mrs Varden's grumbling. Miggs hearing the sound
of wheels was at the door immediately.

'Here they are, Simmun! Here they are!' cried Miggs, clapping her
hands, and issuing forth to help her mistress to alight. 'Bring a
chair, Simmun. Now, an't you the better for it, mim? Don't you feel more
yourself than you would have done if you'd have stopped at home? Oh,
gracious! how cold you are! Goodness me, sir, she's a perfect heap of
ice.'

'I can't help it, my good girl. You had better take her in to the fire,'
said the locksmith.

'Master sounds unfeeling, mim,' said Miggs, in a tone of commiseration,
'but such is not his intentions, I'm sure. After what he has seen of you
this day, I never will believe but that he has a deal more affection
in his heart than to speak unkind. Come in and sit yourself down by the
fire; there's a g