nged lashes.

But the dance commences.  Every gentleman sets as long as he likes to the
opposite lady, and the opposite lady to him, and all are so long about it
that the sport begins to languish, when suddenly the lively hero dashes
in to the rescue.  Instantly the fiddler grins, and goes at it tooth and
nail; there is new energy in the tambourine; new laughter in the dancers;
new smiles in the landlady; new confidence in the landlord; new
brightness in the very candles.

Single shuffle, double shuffle, cut and cross-cut; snapping his fingers,
rolling his eyes, turning in his knees, presenting the backs of his legs
in front, spinning about on his toes and heels like nothing but the man’s
fingers on the tambourine; dancing with two left legs, two right legs,
two wooden legs, two wire legs, two spring legs—all sorts of legs and no
legs—what is this to him? And in what walk of life, or dance of life,
does man ever get such stimulating applause as thunders about him, when,
having danced his partner off her feet, and himself too, he finishes by
leaping gloriously on the bar-counter, and calling for something to
drink, with the chuckle of a million of counterfeit Jim Crows, in one
inimitable sound!

The air, even in these distempered parts, is fresh after the stifling
atmosphere of the houses; and now, as we emerge into a broader street, it
blows upon us with a purer breath, and the stars look bright again.  Here
are The Tombs once more.  The city watch-house is a part of the building.
It follows naturally on the sights we have just left.  Let us see that,
and then to bed.

What! do you thrust your common offenders against the police discipline
of the town, into such holes as these?  Do men and women, against whom no
crime is proved, lie here all night in perfect darkness, surrounded by
the noisome vapours which encircle that flagging lamp you light us with,
and breathing this filthy and offensive stench!  Why, such indecent and
disgusting dungeons as these cells, would bring disgrace upon the most
despotic empire in the world!  Look at them, man—you, who see them every
night, and keep the keys.  Do you see what they are?  Do you know how
drains are made below the streets, and wherein these human sewers differ,
except in being always stagnant?

Well, he don’t know.  He has had five-and-twenty young women locked up in
this very cell at one time, and you’d hardly realise what handsome faces
there were among ’em.

In God’s name! shut the door upon the wretched creature who is in it now,
and put its screen before a place, quite unsurpassed in all the vice,
neglect, and devilry, of the worst old town in Europe.

Are people really left all night, untried, in those black sties?—Every
night.  The watch is set at seven in the evening.  The magistrate opens
his court at five in the morning.  That is the earliest hour at which the
first prisoner can be released; and if an officer appear against him, he
is not taken out till nine o’clock or ten.—But if any one among them die
in the interval, as one man did, not long ago?  Then he is half-eaten by
the rats in an hour’s time; as that man was; and there an end.

What is this intolerable tolling of great bells, and crashing of wheels,
and shouting in the distance?  A fire.  And what that deep red light in
the opposite direction?  Another fire.  And what these charred and
blackened walls we stand before?  A dwelling where a fire has been.  It
was more than hinted, in an official report, not long ago, that some of
these conflagrations were not wholly accidental, and that speculation and
enterprise found a field of exertion, even in flames: but be this as it
may, there was a fire last night, there are two to-night, and you may lay
an even wager there will be at least one, to-morrow.  So, carrying that
with us for our comfort, let us say, Good night, and climb up-stairs to
bed.

                                * * * * *

One day, during my stay in New York, I paid a visit to the different
public institutions on Long Island, or Rhode Island: I forget which.  One
of them is a Lunatic Asylum.  The building is handsome; and is remarkable
for a spacious and elegant staircase.  The whole structure is not yet
finished, but it is already one of considerable size and extent, and is
capable of accommodating a very large number of patients.

I cannot say that I derived much comfort from the inspection of this
charity.  The different wards might have been cleaner and better ordered;
I saw nothing of that salutary system which had impressed me so
favourably elsewhere; and everything had a lounging, listless, madhouse
air, which was very painful.  The moping idiot, cowering down with long
dishevelled hair; the gibbering maniac, with his hideous laugh and
pointed finger; the vacant eye, the fierce wild face, the gloomy picking
of the hands and lips, and munching of the nails: there they were all,
without disguise, in naked ugliness and horror.  In the dining-room, a
bare, dull, dreary place, with nothing for the eye to rest on but the
empty walls, a woman was locked up alone.  She was bent, they told me, on
commit