ly was such as you describe."

A flutter ran round the court.

"And this creature of yours, you would impose on the Jury as a trained
man servant.  You may go down Sir."




PLEA FOR "DODSON AND FOGG."


This famous firm of city attornies has become a bye-word in legal
history--being considered the most notorious of practitioners for sharp,
underhand, scheming practices.  Boz was always vehement against the
abuses of the law, but his generous ardour sometimes led him to
exaggerated and wholesale statements that were scarcely well founded.
This is found in some degree even in the sweeping attacks in _Bleak
House_.  But he was so vivid, so persuasive, in his pictures, that there
was no appeal.

The unreasoning fury of Mr. Pickwick is specially shown in the case of
Jingle, whom he pursued with an animosity that was almost frantic.  One
would think it was some public enemy he was hunting down for the public
good.  Poor Jingle had really done nothing so monstrous, after all.  He
had "chaffed" Dr. Slammer, "run off" with the spinster aunt--nothing so
uncommon in those days--had been consigned to the Fleet for non-payment
of his debts, and there showed penitence and other signs of a good heart.
His one serious offence was passing himself off as a naval officer, and
under an assumed name.  But he had _crossed_ Mr. Pickwick--had ridiculed
him--had contemptuously sent a message to "Tuppy."  When he dared to play
a practical joke on his persecutor, his infamy passed beyond bounds.
Here was the key to Mr. Pickwick's nature--any lack of homage or respect
was an offence against morality.  So with Dodson and Fogg.  He had
settled in his mind that a condescending visit to these gentlemen, with a
little explanation and remonstrance would completely disarm them.  His
fury on his advances being rejected was extraordinary.

Here Boz shows, as he ever does, his profound and most logical treatment
of human character.  He never goes astray, being guided by a happy and
true instinct.  Mr. Pickwick had grown to be the most inflated of men.
Flattered and followed--submitted to with the greatest
deference--ordering people about--doing what he pleased--he could not
stand the slightest opposition.  No one was to contradict--no one to
question even his stockings--speckled or others.  Even when he was
clearly wrong, it was an affront to hint at it.  He had much in common
with that great man, Mr. Gladstone, who was the political Pickwick of his
time.  He was overbearing and arrogant and unrestrained, and I am afraid
vindictive.  Dodson and Fogg were associated with the great mortification
of his life.  He could not forgive them--the very sight of them roused
his hatred, and the having to pay them ransom stung him to fury.  All
which is most natural and yet unexpected.

The popular and genial Sir Frank Lockwood was almost the first to put
forward a plea in abatement of prejudice for the firm.  He showed that
they were not much below the usual type of middle-class solicitors.  What
they did was in the ordinary course.  With Mr. Pickwick they were most
forbearing, and even indulgent.  There was one rather doubtful passage,
but even here he offers extenuation.  This was their treatment of poor
Ramsey, which, at first sight, seems very bad indeed.

    'There was such a game with Fogg here, this mornin',' said the man in
    the brown coat, 'while Jack was upstairs sorting the papers, and you
    two were gone to the stamp-office.  Fogg was down here opening the
    letters, when that chap we issued the writ against at Camberwell, you
    know, came in--what's his name again?'

    'Ramsey,' said the clerk who had spoken to Mr. Pickwick.

    'Ah, Ramsey--a precious seedy-looking customer.  'Well, sir,' says
    old Fogg, looking at him very fierce--you know his way--'well, Sir,
    have you come to settle?'  'Yes, I have, Sir,' said Ramsey, putting
    his hand in his pocket, and bringing out the money, 'the debt
    two-pound ten, and the costs three pound five, and here it is, sir;'
    and he sighed like bricks, as he lugged out the money, done up in a
    bit of blotting paper.  Old Fogg looked first at the money, and then
    at him, and then he coughed in his rum way, so that I knew something
    was coming.  'You don't know there's a declaration filed, which
    increases the costs materially, I suppose?' said Fogg.  'You don't
    say that Sir,' said Ramsey, starting back; 'the time was only out
    last night, Sir.'  'I do say it, though,' said Fogg, 'my clerk's just
    gone to file it.  Hasn't Mr. Jackson gone to file that declaration in
    Bullman and Ramsey, Mr. Wicks?'  Of course I said yes, and then Fogg
    coughed again, and looked at Ramsey.  'My God!' said Ramsey; 'and
    here have I nearly driven myself mad, scraping this money together,
    and all to no purpose.'  'None at all,' said Fogg, coolly; 'so you
    had better go back and scrape some more together, and bring it here
    in time.'  'I can't get it, by God,' said Ramsey, striking the desk
    with his fist.  'Don't bully me, Sir,' said Fogg, getting into a
    passion on purpose