 to
put pressure on the firm by hinting at such proceedings.

The damages, 750 pounds, were certainly moderate, and would not have been
reduced by the Court on an application to set them aside as "excessive."
The good woman was quite at her ease, being no doubt certain that Mr.
Pickwick, at last, must give in.  She could even enjoy the society of her
friends and make the celebrated junketting to the "Spaniards."  The firm
took another view and grew tired of waiting; or they were sagacious
enough to see that the arrest of their client was about the best method
of putting pressure on Mr. Pickwick.  In this connection, it may be noted
that Jackson's over zeal in the transaction might have led to an action
against his employers; for he arrested not only Mrs. Bardell, but her
friends, Mrs. Sanders and Mrs. Cluppins.  The prison gates were actually
shut on them.  "Safe and sound," said the Bailiff.  "Here we are at
last," said Jackson, "all right and tight."

True, Mrs. Bardell put under her hand in her appealing letter to Mr.
Pickwick, that "this business was from the very first fomented and
encouraged and brought about by these men," but this is not much; for the
view only occurs to her when her operations had completely failed and
recoiled on her own head with such disastrous result.  The firm's
business was to persuade her that she had a good case, and the Jury's
verdict proved that she had.  Had Mr. Pickwick given in and paid, she
would have had no scruples.  One cannot, at the same time, but admire the
ingenuity of the author, in bringing such a Nemesis on her.  Dodson and
Fogg, we are told, "continue in business from which they realise a large
income, and in which they are universally considered among the sharpest
of the sharp."

At the last interview, at Perker's, when the costs were paid, one might
have expected Mr. Pickwick to behave with a certain disdainful dignity.
He was beaten and had paid over the stakes, and could afford to treat his
enemy with contempt.  Not so.  The partners held out the olive branch by
alluding to the way they had passed by his unmannerly attacks on them.
"I beg to assure you, sir, I bear you no ill will or vindictive feeling
for sentiments you thought proper to express of us in our office," and
the other partner said, "I hope you don't think quite so ill of us, etc."
This was rather gentlemanly and becoming.  One offered his hand.  But Mr.
Pickwick broke out in a perfect fury.  They had assumed a tone of
forgiveness which was "an excess of impudence."  He had been "the victim
of their plots and conspiracies."  They had imprisoned and robbed him.
It was "insolent familiarity."  At last he said, "_You are a well-matched
pair of mean_, _rascally_, _pettifogging robbers_."  This sentence he
repeated three times, and the words "Robbers" he shouted after them many
times over the stairs.

Sharping attornies!  Why, a real sharping firm would have forced from
their client advances of fee, "cash out of pocket," have made her give a
Bill of Sale on her lease and goods, and have fairly stripped her of
everything before the case began.  Of the damages--had they got them--she
would have seen but little.

The _Cognovit_ that was extracted from Mrs. Bardell was an
acknowledgement, as we have seen, which entitled them to enter up
judgment just as if a trial had taken place.  In the Oxford great
Dictionary, it reads quaintly to find Mrs. Bardell's cognovit quoted as
an illustration of the legal meaning.

The Turnkey, on her arrest, had told Sam that she had been brought to the
Fleet, "on a Cognovit for costs," Sam imparted this news to Job Trotter,
and sent him off, hot foot, to Perker in Montague Place.  This outcast,
was able to tell him, "it seems they got a _Cognovit_ out of her for the
amount of the costs, directly after the trial!"

Boz, on this occasion, gives us a happy glimpse of Solicitor life.

    Mr. Perker had a dinner party that day, which was certified by the
    lights in the drawing-room windows, the sound of an improved grand
    piano, and an improveable cabinet voice issuing therefrom; and a
    rather overpowering smell of meat which prevaded the steps and entry.
    In fact, a couple of very good country agencies happening to come up
    to town at the same time, an agreeable little party had been got
    together to meet them, comprising Mr. Snicks the Life Office
    Secretary, Mr. Prosee the eminent counsel, three solicitors, one
    commissioner of bankrupts, a special pleader from the Temple, a
    small-eyed peremptory young gentleman, his pupil, who had written a
    lively book about the law of demises, with a vast quantity of
    marginal notes and references; and several other eminent and
    distinguished personages.  From this society little Mr. Perker
    detached himself on his clerk being announced in a whisper; and
    repairing to the dining-room, there found Mr. Lowten and Job Trotter
    looking very dim and shadowy by the light of a kitchen candle, which
    the gentleman who condescended to appear in plush shorts and cottons
    for a quarterly stipend, had, with a be