
Chapter 54


Rumours of the prevailing disturbances had, by this time, begun to be
pretty generally circulated through the towns and villages round London,
and the tidings were everywhere received with that appetite for the
marvellous and love of the terrible which have probably been among the
natural characteristics of mankind since the creation of the world.
These accounts, however, appeared, to many persons at that day--as
they would to us at the present, but that we know them to be matter of
history--so monstrous and improbable, that a great number of those who
were resident at a distance, and who were credulous enough on other
points, were really unable to bring their minds to believe that such
things could be; and rejected the intelligence they received on all
hands, as wholly fabulous and absurd.

Mr Willet--not so much, perhaps, on account of his having argued and
settled the matter with himself, as by reason of his constitutional
obstinacy--was one of those who positively refused to entertain the
current topic for a moment. On this very evening, and perhaps at the
very time when Gashford kept his solitary watch, old John was so red in
the face with perpetually shaking his head in contradiction of his three
ancient cronies and pot companions, that he was quite a phenomenon to
behold, and lighted up the Maypole Porch wherein they sat together, like
a monstrous carbuncle in a fairy tale.

'Do you think, sir,' said Mr Willet, looking hard at Solomon Daisy--for
it was his custom in cases of personal altercation to fasten upon the
smallest man in the party--'do you think, sir, that I'm a born fool?'

'No, no, Johnny,' returned Solomon, looking round upon the little circle
of which he formed a part: 'We all know better than that. You're no
fool, Johnny. No, no!'

Mr Cobb and Mr Parkes shook their heads in unison, muttering, 'No, no,
Johnny, not you!' But as such compliments had usually the effect of
making Mr Willet rather more dogged than before, he surveyed them with a
look of deep disdain, and returned for answer:

'Then what do you mean by coming here, and telling me that this evening
you're a-going to walk up to London together--you three--you--and have
the evidence of your own senses? An't,' said Mr Willet, putting his pipe
in his mouth with an air of solemn disgust, 'an't the evidence of MY
senses enough for you?'

'But we haven't got it, Johnny,' pleaded Parkes, humbly.

'You haven't got it, sir?' repeated Mr Willet, eyeing him from top to
toe. 'You haven't got it, sir? You HAVE got it, sir. Don't I tell you
that His blessed Majesty King George the Third would no more stand a
rioting and rollicking in his streets, than he'd stand being crowed over
by his own Parliament?'

'Yes, Johnny, but that's your sense--not your senses,' said the
adventurous Mr Parkes.

'How do you know? 'retorted John with great dignity. 'You're a
contradicting pretty free, you are, sir. How do YOU know which it is?
I'm not aware I ever told you, sir.'

Mr Parkes, finding himself in the position of having got into
metaphysics without exactly seeing his way out of them, stammered forth
an apology and retreated from the argument. There then ensued a silence
of some ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, at the expiration of which
period Mr Willet was observed to rumble and shake with laughter, and
presently remarked, in reference to his late adversary, 'that he hoped
he had tackled him enough.' Thereupon Messrs Cobb and Daisy laughed,
and nodded, and Parkes was looked upon as thoroughly and effectually put
down.

'Do you suppose if all this was true, that Mr Haredale would be
constantly away from home, as he is?' said John, after another silence.
'Do you think he wouldn't be afraid to leave his house with them two
young women in it, and only a couple of men, or so?'

'Ay, but then you know,' returned Solomon Daisy, 'his house is a goodish
way out of London, and they do say that the rioters won't go more than
two miles, or three at the farthest, off the stones. Besides, you
know, some of the Catholic gentlefolks have actually sent trinkets and
suchlike down here for safety--at least, so the story goes.'

'The story goes!' said Mr Willet testily. 'Yes, sir. The story goes that
you saw a ghost last March. But nobody believes it.'

'Well!' said Solomon, rising, to divert the attention of his two
friends, who tittered at this retort: 'believed or disbelieved, it's
true; and true or not, if we mean to go to London, we must be going at
once. So shake hands, Johnny, and good night.'

'I shall shake hands,' returned the landlord, putting his into his
pockets, 'with no man as goes to London on such nonsensical errands.'

The three cronies were therefore reduced to the necessity of shaking his
elbows; having performed that ceremony, and brought from the house their
hats, and sticks, and greatcoats, they bade him good night and departed;
promising to bring him on the morrow full and true accounts of the real
state of the city, and if it were quiet, to give him the full merit of
his victory.

John Willet looked after them, as they plodded along the road in t