gh the kindness of
the charitable he had broken his fast once since morning, and was not
hungry. When he had made her this reply, he opened his wallet, and took
out a few pence, which was all it appeared to contain.

'Might I make bold to ask,' he said, turning towards where Barnaby stood
looking on, 'that one who has the gift of sight, would lay this out for
me in bread to keep me on my way? Heaven's blessing on the young feet
that will bestir themselves in aid of one so helpless as a sightless
man!'

Barnaby looked at his mother, who nodded assent; in another moment he
was gone upon his charitable errand. The blind man sat listening with an
attentive face, until long after the sound of his retreating footsteps
was inaudible to the widow, and then said, suddenly, and in a very
altered tone:

'There are various degrees and kinds of blindness, widow. There is the
connubial blindness, ma'am, which perhaps you may have observed in
the course of your own experience, and which is a kind of wilful and
self-bandaging blindness. There is the blindness of party, ma'am, and
public men, which is the blindness of a mad bull in the midst of a
regiment of soldiers clothed in red. There is the blind confidence of
youth, which is the blindness of young kittens, whose eyes have not yet
opened on the world; and there is that physical blindness, ma'am, of
which I am, contrairy to my own desire, a most illustrious example.
Added to these, ma'am, is that blindness of the intellect, of which we
have a specimen in your interesting son, and which, having sometimes
glimmerings and dawnings of the light, is scarcely to be trusted as a
total darkness. Therefore, ma'am, I have taken the liberty to get him
out of the way for a short time, while you and I confer together, and
this precaution arising out of the delicacy of my sentiments towards
yourself, you will excuse me, ma'am, I know.'

Having delivered himself of this speech with many flourishes of manner,
he drew from beneath his coat a flat stone bottle, and holding the cork
between his teeth, qualified his mug of water with a plentiful infusion
of the liquor it contained. He politely drained the bumper to her
health, and the ladies, and setting it down empty, smacked his lips with
infinite relish.

'I am a citizen of the world, ma'am,' said the blind man, corking his
bottle, 'and if I seem to conduct myself with freedom, it is therefore.
You wonder who I am, ma'am, and what has brought me here. Such
experience of human nature as I have, leads me to that conclusion,
without the aid of eyes by which to read the movements of your soul
as depicted in your feminine features. I will satisfy your curiosity
immediately, ma'am; immediately.' With that he slapped his bottle on its
broad back, and having put it under his garment as before, crossed his
legs and folded his hands, and settled himself in his chair, previous to
proceeding any further.

The change in his manner was so unexpected, the craft and wickedness
of his deportment were so much aggravated by his condition--for we are
accustomed to see in those who have lost a human sense, something in its
place almost divine--and this alteration bred so many fears in her whom
he addressed, that she could not pronounce one word. After waiting, as
it seemed, for some remark or answer, and waiting in vain, the visitor
resumed:

'Madam, my name is Stagg. A friend of mine who has desired the honour of
meeting with you any time these five years past, has commissioned me to
call upon you. I should be glad to whisper that gentleman's name in your
ear.--Zounds, ma'am, are you deaf? Do you hear me say that I should be
glad to whisper my friend's name in your ear?'

'You need not repeat it,' said the widow, with a stifled groan; 'I see
too well from whom you come.'

'But as a man of honour, ma'am,' said the blind man, striking himself on
the breast, 'whose credentials must not be disputed, I take leave to say
that I WILL mention that gentleman's name. Ay, ay,' he added, seeming
to catch with his quick ear the very motion of her hand, 'but not aloud.
With your leave, ma'am, I desire the favour of a whisper.'

She moved towards him, and stooped down. He muttered a word in her
ear; and, wringing her hands, she paced up and down the room like one
distracted. The blind man, with perfect composure, produced his bottle
again, mixed another glassful; put it up as before; and, drinking from
time to time, followed her with his face in silence.

'You are slow in conversation, widow,' he said after a time, pausing in
his draught. 'We shall have to talk before your son.'

'What would you have me do?' she answered. 'What do you want?'

'We are poor, widow, we are poor,' he retorted, stretching out his right
hand, and rubbing his thumb upon its palm.

'Poor!' she cried. 'And what am I?'

'Comparisons are odious,' said the blind man. 'I don't know, I don't
care. I say that we are poor. My friend's circumstances are indifferent,
and so are mine. We must have our rights, widow, or we must be bought
off. But you know that, as well as I, so where is the use of talking?'

She still walked