with the assurance that directly he had housed
her in the Maypole, he would return to the spot with a lantern (for it
was now quite dark) and make strict search for the missing articles,
which there was great probability of his finding, as it was not likely
that anybody had passed that way since, and she was not conscious that
they had been forcibly taken from her. Dolly thanked him very heartily
for this offer, though with no great hope of his quest being successful;
and so with many lamentations on her side, and many hopeful words on
his, and much weakness on the part of Dolly and much tender supporting
on the part of Joe, they reached the Maypole bar at last, where the
locksmith and his wife and old John were yet keeping high festival.

Mr Willet received the intelligence of Dolly's trouble with that
surprising presence of mind and readiness of speech for which he was so
eminently distinguished above all other men. Mrs Varden expressed her
sympathy for her daughter's distress by scolding her roundly for being
so late; and the honest locksmith divided himself between condoling with
and kissing Dolly, and shaking hands heartily with Joe, whom he could
not sufficiently praise or thank.

In reference to this latter point, old John was far from agreeing with
his friend; for besides that he by no means approved of an adventurous
spirit in the abstract, it occurred to him that if his son and heir had
been seriously damaged in a scuffle, the consequences would assuredly
have been expensive and inconvenient, and might perhaps have proved
detrimental to the Maypole business. Wherefore, and because he looked
with no favourable eye upon young girls, but rather considered that they
and the whole female sex were a kind of nonsensical mistake on the part
of Nature, he took occasion to retire and shake his head in private at
the boiler; inspired by which silent oracle, he was moved to give Joe
various stealthy nudges with his elbow, as a parental reproof and gentle
admonition to mind his own business and not make a fool of himself.

Joe, however, took down the lantern and lighted it; and arming himself
with a stout stick, asked whether Hugh was in the stable.

'He's lying asleep before the kitchen fire, sir,' said Mr Willet. 'What
do you want him for?'

'I want him to come with me to look after this bracelet and letter,'
answered Joe. 'Halloa there! Hugh!'

Dolly turned pale as death, and felt as if she must faint forthwith.
After a few moments, Hugh came staggering in, stretching himself and
yawning according to custom, and presenting every appearance of having
been roused from a sound nap.

'Here, sleepy-head,' said Joe, giving him the lantern. 'Carry this, and
bring the dog, and that small cudgel of yours. And woe betide the fellow
if we come upon him.'

'What fellow?' growled Hugh, rubbing his eyes and shaking himself.

'What fellow?' returned Joe, who was in a state of great valour and
bustle; 'a fellow you ought to know of and be more alive about. It's
well for the like of you, lazy giant that you are, to be snoring your
time away in chimney-corners, when honest men's daughters can't cross
even our quiet meadows at nightfall without being set upon by footpads,
and frightened out of their precious lives.'

'They never rob me,' cried Hugh with a laugh. 'I have got nothing to
lose. But I'd as lief knock them at head as any other men. How many are
there?'

'Only one,' said Dolly faintly, for everybody looked at her.

'And what was he like, mistress?' said Hugh with a glance at young
Willet, so slight and momentary that the scowl it conveyed was lost on
all but her. 'About my height?'

'Not--not so tall,' Dolly replied, scarce knowing what she said.

'His dress,' said Hugh, looking at her keenly, 'like--like any of ours
now? I know all the people hereabouts, and maybe could give a guess at
the man, if I had anything to guide me.'

Dolly faltered and turned paler yet; then answered that he was wrapped
in a loose coat and had his face hidden by a handkerchief and that she
could give no other description of him.

'You wouldn't know him if you saw him then, belike?' said Hugh with a
malicious grin.

'I should not,' answered Dolly, bursting into tears again. 'I don't wish
to see him. I can't bear to think of him. I can't talk about him any
more. Don't go to look for these things, Mr Joe, pray don't. I entreat
you not to go with that man.'

'Not to go with me!' cried Hugh. 'I'm too rough for them all. They're
all afraid of me. Why, bless you mistress, I've the tenderest heart
alive. I love all the ladies, ma'am,' said Hugh, turning to the
locksmith's wife.

Mrs Varden opined that if he did, he ought to be ashamed of himself;
such sentiments being more consistent (so she argued) with a benighted
Mussulman or wild Islander than with a stanch Protestant. Arguing from
this imperfect state of his morals, Mrs Varden further opined that he
had never studied the Manual. Hugh admitting that he never had, and
moreover that he couldn't read, Mrs Varden declared with much severity,
that he ought to be even more ashamed of himself than before, and
strongl