 life a reality.  He throws himself upon his bed, and lies there
abandoned to despair.  By degrees the insupportable solitude and
barrenness of the place rouses him from this stupor, and when the trap in
his grated door is opened, he humbly begs and prays for work.  ‘Give me
some work to do, or I shall go raving mad!’

He has it; and by fits and starts applies himself to labour; but every
now and then there comes upon him a burning sense of the years that must
be wasted in that stone coffin, and an agony so piercing in the
recollection of those who are hidden from his view and knowledge, that he
starts from his seat, and striding up and down the narrow room with both
hands clasped on his uplifted head, hears spirits tempting him to beat
his brains out on the wall.

Again he falls upon his bed, and lies there, moaning.  Suddenly he starts
up, wondering whether any other man is near; whether there is another
cell like that on either side of him: and listens keenly.

There is no sound, but other prisoners may be near for all that.  He
remembers to have heard once, when he little thought of coming here
himself, that the cells were so constructed that the prisoners could not
hear each other, though the officers could hear them.  Where is the
nearest man—upon the right, or on the left? or is there one in both
directions?  Where is he sitting now—with his face to the light? or is he
walking to and fro?  How is he dressed? Has he been here long?  Is he
much worn away?  Is he very white and spectre-like?  Does _he_ think of
his neighbour too?

Scarcely venturing to breathe, and listening while he thinks, he conjures
up a figure with his back towards him, and imagines it moving about in
this next cell.  He has no idea of the face, but he is certain of the
dark form of a stooping man.  In the cell upon the other side, he puts
another figure, whose face is hidden from him also.  Day after day, and
often when he wakes up in the middle of the night, he thinks of these two
men until he is almost distracted.  He never changes them.  There they
are always as he first imagined them—an old man on the right; a younger
man upon the left—whose hidden features torture him to death, and have a
mystery that makes him tremble.

The weary days pass on with solemn pace, like mourners at a funeral; and
slowly he begins to feel that the white walls of the cell have something
dreadful in them: that their colour is horrible: that their smooth
surface chills his blood: that there is one hateful corner which torments
him.  Every morning when he wakes, he hides his head beneath the
coverlet, and shudders to see the ghastly ceiling looking down upon him.
The blessed light of day itself peeps in, an ugly phantom face, through
the unchangeable crevice which is his prison window.

By slow but sure degrees, the terrors of that hateful corner swell until
they beset him at all times; invade his rest, make his dreams hideous,
and his nights dreadful.  At first, he took a strange dislike to it;
feeling as though it gave birth in his brain to something of
corresponding shape, which ought not to be there, and racked his head
with pains.  Then he began to fear it, then to dream of it, and of men
whispering its name and pointing to it.  Then he could not bear to look
at it, nor yet to turn his back upon it.  Now, it is every night the
lurking-place of a ghost: a shadow:—a silent something, horrible to see,
but whether bird, or beast, or muffled human shape, he cannot tell.

                     [Picture: The Solitary Prisoner]

When he is in his cell by day, he fears the little yard without.  When he
is in the yard, he dreads to re-enter the cell.  When night comes, there
stands the phantom in the corner.  If he have the courage to stand in its
place, and drive it out (he had once: being desperate), it broods upon
his bed.  In the twilight, and always at the same hour, a voice calls to
him by name; as the darkness thickens, his Loom begins to live; and even
that, his comfort, is a hideous figure, watching him till daybreak.

Again, by slow degrees, these horrible fancies depart from him one by
one: returning sometimes, unexpectedly, but at longer intervals, and in
less alarming shapes.  He has talked upon religious matters with the
gentleman who visits him, and has read his Bible, and has written a
prayer upon his slate, and hung it up as a kind of protection, and an
assurance of Heavenly companionship.  He dreams now, sometimes, of his
children or his wife, but is sure that they are dead, or have deserted
him.  He is easily moved to tears; is gentle, submissive, and
broken-spirited.  Occasionally, the old agony comes back: a very little
thing will revive it; even a familiar sound, or the scent of summer
flowers in the air; but it does not last long, now: for the world
without, has come to be the vision, and this solitary life, the sad
reality.

If his term of imprisonment be short—I mean comparatively, for short it
cannot be—the last half year is almost worse than all; for then he thinks
the prison will take fire and he be burnt in the ruins, or that he is
doomed to die 