 more consolatory visions than pauperism on an extensive scale, and
ruin in a capacious aspect. Consequently, he had never failed to receive
the intelligence with a rueful shake of the head, or a dreary stare, and
had been always observed to appear much more melancholy after a visit of
condolence than at any other time in the whole four-and-twenty hours.

It chanced, however, that sitting over the fire on this particular
occasion--perhaps because he was, as it were, done to a turn; perhaps
because he was in an unusually bright state of mind; perhaps because
he had considered the subject so long; perhaps because of all these
favouring circumstances, taken together--it chanced that, sitting over
the fire on this particular occasion, Mr Willet did, afar off and in
the remotest depths of his intellect, perceive a kind of lurking hint or
faint suggestion, that out of the public purse there might issue funds
for the restoration of the Maypole to its former high place among the
taverns of the earth. And this dim ray of light did so diffuse itself
within him, and did so kindle up and shine, that at last he had it as
plainly and visibly before him as the blaze by which he sat; and, fully
persuaded that he was the first to make the discovery, and that he had
started, hunted down, fallen upon, and knocked on the head, a perfectly
original idea which had never presented itself to any other man, alive
or dead, he laid down his pipe, rubbed his hands, and chuckled audibly.

'Why, father!' cried Joe, entering at the moment, 'you're in spirits
to-day!'

'It's nothing partickler,' said Mr Willet, chuckling again. 'It's
nothing at all partickler, Joseph. Tell me something about the
Salwanners.' Having preferred this request, Mr Willet chuckled a third
time, and after these unusual demonstrations of levity, he put his pipe
in his mouth again.

'What shall I tell you, father?' asked Joe, laying his hand upon his
sire's shoulder, and looking down into his face. 'That I have come back,
poorer than a church mouse? You know that. That I have come back, maimed
and crippled? You know that.'

'It was took off,' muttered Mr Willet, with his eyes upon the fire, 'at
the defence of the Salwanners, in America, where the war is.'

'Quite right,' returned Joe, smiling, and leaning with his remaining
elbow on the back of his father's chair; 'the very subject I came to
speak to you about. A man with one arm, father, is not of much use in
the busy world.'

This was one of those vast propositions which Mr Willet had never
considered for an instant, and required time to 'tackle.' Wherefore he
made no answer.

'At all events,' said Joe, 'he can't pick and choose his means of
earning a livelihood, as another man may. He can't say "I will turn my
hand to this," or "I won't turn my hand to that," but must take what he
can do, and be thankful it's no worse.--What did you say?'

Mr Willet had been softly repeating to himself, in a musing tone, the
words 'defence of the Salwanners:' but he seemed embarrassed at having
been overheard, and answered 'Nothing.'

'Now look here, father.--Mr Edward has come to England from the West
Indies. When he was lost sight of (I ran away on the same day, father),
he made a voyage to one of the islands, where a school-friend of his
had settled; and, finding him, wasn't too proud to be employed on his
estate, and--and in short, got on well, and is prospering, and has come
over here on business of his own, and is going back again speedily. Our
returning nearly at the same time, and meeting in the course of the late
troubles, has been a good thing every way; for it has not only enabled
us to do old friends some service, but has opened a path in life for me
which I may tread without being a burden upon you. To be plain, father,
he can employ me; I have satisfied myself that I can be of real use to
him; and I am going to carry my one arm away with him, and to make the
most of it.

In the mind's eye of Mr Willet, the West Indies, and indeed all foreign
countries, were inhabited by savage nations, who were perpetually
burying pipes of peace, flourishing tomahawks, and puncturing strange
patterns in their bodies. He no sooner heard this announcement,
therefore, than he leaned back in his chair, took his pipe from his
lips, and stared at his son with as much dismay as if he already beheld
him tied to a stake, and tortured for the entertainment of a lively
population. In what form of expression his feelings would have found
a vent, it is impossible to say. Nor is it necessary: for, before a
syllable occurred to him, Dolly Varden came running into the room, in
tears, threw herself on Joe's breast without a word of explanation, and
clasped her white arms round his neck.

'Dolly!' cried Joe. 'Dolly!'

'Ay, call me that; call me that always,' exclaimed the locksmith's
little daughter; 'never speak coldly to me, never be distant, never
again reprove me for the follies I have long repented, or I shall die,
Joe.'

'I reprove you!' said Joe.

'Yes--for every kind and honest word you uttered, went to my heart. For
you, who have borne so much from me--for y