one should come in, what
would be said.  Now, this is not the language of an ardent suitor, who
would rather wish than otherwise, that such endearing familiarities
should continue: though I don't think you need seriously accept the
reading the learned Counsel, Mr. Skimpin, put on the phrase used; on the
other hand, the words 'my dear creature,' were distinctly heard.

"There is one little incident," the Judge might go on, "which I must not
pass by, and which is not without its significance.  A witness deposed
that the defendant was noted for his kindness to the Plaintiff's little
boy--that he was constantly giving him presents, and once was heard to
say to him, patting him on the head, '_how would you like to have another
father_?'  Now, this addressed to a child of tender years does seem an
odd sort of speech.  Of course, it will be contended that the reference
was to the probability of his Mother marrying some one other than the
Defendant: if that be the case, it seems to me rather an indelicate and
reckless speech.  And then it must be said, it seems inconsistent with
the amiable and benevolent character given to the Defendant to-day.  On
the other hand, if he were referring to _himself_ it will appear natural
and proper enough.  And there is this to be added, that when the child
had reported the remark to his mother, which of course he did, she would
most reasonably begin to found hopes upon it.  And then what follows,
Gentlemen?--the Defendant is found holding this lady in his arms, and
becomes so demonstrative in his attentions that this very child comes to
her rescue.  I am inexperienced in these things--they may be innocent and
done with the purest intentions, or may not; but you, Gentlemen of the
Jury, are men of the world: and it is for you to put the proper
construction on them."

"You will have noted, Gentlemen, this curious feature of the case.  None
of the witnesses were in the room when the imputed proposal was made, yet
all, Cluppins, Weller, and the Defendant's three friends, _heard_ what
the Defendant said.  This suggests that he must have been very pressing,
if not agitated.  One of the witnesses, Winkle, I think, yes, Winkle,
actually deposes to hearing the words, 'My dear creature!  Compose
yourself' and the like.  He added he was afraid someone might come in; a
very reasonable fear, Gentlemen, and well grounded: for several persons
_did_ come in and it would seem with awkward results for the Defendant.
But, Gentlemen, I confess that what most of all weighs with me in this
case is the remarkable avowal wrung from a reluctant witness, of the
Defendant's being surprised at midnight in a lady's bed-chamber, and
being taken, after a serious riot, before the Magistrates.  This came on
me, as I saw it did on you all, as a surprise.  True, it does not bear on
the question of a promise or of the breach.  But still it seems a matter
which you cannot wholly shut out from your consideration.  It startled me
as it did you, to find a sort of travelling philanthropist, as the
Defendant Pickwick holds himself out to be, on whose mildly benevolent
features nature seems to have stamped rectitude and high principle,
living a life of hypocrisy, taking part in midnight invasions and
daylight riots.  It is one of his own friends who tells us this sad
story: and it is for you to consider whether the Plaintiff was here also
in pursuit of yet another disreputable game, holding out marriage as the
bait: I seem to speak strongly, but I feel it would be impossible to
withdraw this from your consideration.

"You may reasonably ask yourselves of what Pickwick was afraid--or why
did he dread the presence of witnesses?  Was he simply beguiling the
lady, as he attempted to beguile that lady at Ipswich, without 'meaning
business,' as the phrase runs.  I must say the Plaintiff had rather
reasonable grounds for assuming that the Defendant _did_ mean business.
But all this is for you, Gentlemen, not for me.

"Then we have the man Weller's statement--a sort of humorous stage
servant, not unamusing--and of course entirely devoted to his master's
interest.  I don't think you need attach any importance to what he said
of the solicitors for the Plaintiff.  When I was at the Bar, Gentlemen,
attornies did much worse things than this."

The jury consulted for only a few minutes.  Perhaps, however, they were
only discussing the amount of damages.  They were certainly
moderate--laid at 1500 pounds--though had Dodson and Fogg's advice
prevailed, it should have been double.  This only, by the way, is further
proof of the amiable Mrs. Bardell's moderation and secret _tendre_ for
her genial lodger.  Considering that Mr. Pickwick was 'a gentleman,' and
further a gentleman of means, and that Mrs. Bardell was but an humble
lodging-house keeper, the sum seems hardly commensurate.  Dodson and Fogg
no doubt expected 1,000 pounds.

    An anxious quarter of an hour elapsed; the jury came back; the judge
    was fetched in.  Mr. Pickwick put on his spectacles, and gazed at the
    foreman with an agitated countenance and a quickly beating heart.

    'Gentlemen