pretty mistresses--make a noise--do--and I
shall like it all the better.'

They were proceeding at a rapid pace, and apparently with fewer
attendants than before, though it was so dark (the torches being
extinguished) that this was mere conjecture. They shrunk from his touch,
each into the farthest corner of the carriage; but shrink as Dolly
would, his arm encircled her waist, and held her fast. She neither cried
nor spoke, for terror and disgust deprived her of the power; but she
plucked at his hand as though she would die in the effort to disengage
herself; and crouching on the ground, with her head averted and held
down, repelled him with a strength she wondered at as much as he. The
carriage stopped again.

'Lift this one out,' said Hugh to the man who opened the door, as
he took Miss Haredale's hand, and felt how heavily it fell. 'She's
fainted.'

'So much the better,' growled Dennis--it was that amiable gentleman.
'She's quiet. I always like 'em to faint, unless they're very tender and
composed.'

'Can you take her by yourself?' asked Hugh.

'I don't know till I try. I ought to be able to; I've lifted up a good
many in my time,' said the hangman. 'Up then! She's no small weight,
brother; none of these here fine gals are. Up again! Now we have her.'

Having by this time hoisted the young lady into his arms, he staggered
off with his burden.

'Look ye, pretty bird,' said Hugh, drawing Dolly towards him. 'Remember
what I told you--a kiss for every cry. Scream, if you love me, darling.
Scream once, mistress. Pretty mistress, only once, if you love me.'

Thrusting his face away with all her force, and holding down her head,
Dolly submitted to be carried out of the chaise, and borne after Miss
Haredale into a miserable cottage, where Hugh, after hugging her to his
breast, set her gently down upon the floor.

Poor Dolly! Do what she would, she only looked the better for it, and
tempted them the more. When her eyes flashed angrily, and her ripe lips
slightly parted, to give her rapid breathing vent, who could resist it?
When she wept and sobbed as though her heart would break, and bemoaned
her miseries in the sweetest voice that ever fell upon a listener's ear,
who could be insensible to the little winning pettishness which now
and then displayed itself, even in the sincerity and earnestness of her
grief? When, forgetful for a moment of herself, as she was now, she fell
on her knees beside her friend, and bent over her, and laid her cheek
to hers, and put her arms about her, what mortal eyes could have avoided
wandering to the delicate bodice, the streaming hair, the neglected
dress, the perfect abandonment and unconsciousness of the blooming
little beauty? Who could look on and see her lavish caresses and
endearments, and not desire to be in Emma Haredale's place; to be either
her or Dolly; either the hugging or the hugged? Not Hugh. Not Dennis.

'I tell you what it is, young women,' said Mr Dennis, 'I an't much of a
lady's man myself, nor am I a party in the present business further than
lending a willing hand to my friends: but if I see much more of this
here sort of thing, I shall become a principal instead of a accessory. I
tell you candid.'

'Why have you brought us here?' said Emma. 'Are we to be murdered?'

'Murdered!' cried Dennis, sitting down upon a stool, and regarding her
with great favour. 'Why, my dear, who'd murder sich chickabiddies as
you? If you was to ask me, now, whether you was brought here to be
married, there might be something in it.'

And here he exchanged a grin with Hugh, who removed his eyes from Dolly
for the purpose.

'No, no,' said Dennis, 'there'll be no murdering, my pets. Nothing of
that sort. Quite the contrairy.'

'You are an older man than your companion, sir,' said Emma, trembling.
'Have you no pity for us? Do you not consider that we are women?'

'I do indeed, my dear,' retorted Dennis. 'It would be very hard not to,
with two such specimens afore my eyes. Ha ha! Oh yes, I consider that.
We all consider that, miss.'

He shook his head waggishly, leered at Hugh again, and laughed very
much, as if he had said a noble thing, and rather thought he was coming
out.

'There'll be no murdering, my dear. Not a bit on it. I tell you what
though, brother,' said Dennis, cocking his hat for the convenience
of scratching his head, and looking gravely at Hugh, 'it's worthy of
notice, as a proof of the amazing equalness and dignity of our law, that
it don't make no distinction between men and women. I've heerd the judge
say, sometimes, to a highwayman or housebreaker as had tied the ladies
neck and heels--you'll excuse me making mention of it, my darlings--and
put 'em in a cellar, that he showed no consideration to women. Now, I
say that there judge didn't know his business, brother; and that if
I had been that there highwayman or housebreaker, I should have made
answer: "What are you a talking of, my lord? I showed the women as much
consideration as the law does, and what more would you have me do?" If
you was to count up in the newspapers the number of females as have
been worked off in this here city 