nd to-morrow
morning the hanged,' returned the locksmith.

Sir John had expected--had been quite certain from the first--that he
would say he had come from Hugh, and was prepared to meet him on that
point. But this answer occasioned him a degree of astonishment, which,
for the moment, he could not, with all his command of feature, prevent
his face from expressing. He quickly subdued it, however, and said in
the same light tone:

'And what does the gentleman require of me? My memory may be at
fault again, but I don't recollect that I ever had the pleasure of
an introduction to him, or that I ever numbered him among my personal
friends, I do assure you, Mr Varden.'

'Sir John,' returned the locksmith, gravely, 'I will tell you, as nearly
as I can, in the words he used to me, what he desires that you should
know, and what you ought to know without a moment's loss of time.'

Sir John Chester settled himself in a position of greater repose, and
looked at his visitor with an expression of face which seemed to say,
'This is an amusing fellow! I'll hear him out.'

'You may have seen in the newspapers, sir,' said Gabriel, pointing to
the one which lay by his side, 'that I was a witness against this man
upon his trial some days since; and that it was not his fault I was
alive, and able to speak to what I knew.'

'MAY have seen!' cried Sir John. 'My dear Mr Varden, you are quite
a public character, and live in all men's thoughts most deservedly.
Nothing can exceed the interest with which I read your testimony,
and remembered that I had the pleasure of a slight acquaintance with
you.---I hope we shall have your portrait published?'

'This morning, sir,' said the locksmith, taking no notice of these
compliments, 'early this morning, a message was brought to me from
Newgate, at this man's request, desiring that I would go and see him,
for he had something particular to communicate. I needn't tell you
that he is no friend of mine, and that I had never seen him, until the
rioters beset my house.'

Sir John fanned himself gently with the newspaper, and nodded.

'I knew, however, from the general report,' resumed Gabriel, 'that the
order for his execution to-morrow, went down to the prison last night;
and looking upon him as a dying man, I complied with his request.'

'You are quite a Christian, Mr Varden,' said Sir John; 'and in that
amiable capacity, you increase my desire that you should take a chair.'

'He said,' continued Gabriel, looking steadily at the knight, 'that he
had sent to me, because he had no friend or companion in the whole world
(being the common hangman), and because he believed, from the way in
which I had given my evidence, that I was an honest man, and would act
truly by him. He said that, being shunned by every one who knew his
calling, even by people of the lowest and most wretched grade, and
finding, when he joined the rioters, that the men he acted with had no
suspicion of it (which I believe is true enough, for a poor fool of an
old 'prentice of mine was one of them), he had kept his own counsel, up
to the time of his being taken and put in jail.'

'Very discreet of Mr Dennis,' observed Sir John with a slight yawn,
though still with the utmost affability, 'but--except for your admirable
and lucid manner of telling it, which is perfect--not very interesting
to me.'

'When,' pursued the locksmith, quite unabashed and wholly regardless of
these interruptions, 'when he was taken to the jail, he found that his
fellow-prisoner, in the same room, was a young man, Hugh by name, a
leader in the riots, who had been betrayed and given up by himself. From
something which fell from this unhappy creature in the course of the
angry words they had at meeting, he discovered that his mother had
suffered the death to which they both are now condemned.--The time is
very short, Sir John.'

The knight laid down his paper fan, replaced his cup upon the table at
his side, and, saving for the smile that lurked about his mouth, looked
at the locksmith with as much steadiness as the locksmith looked at him.

'They have been in prison now, a month. One conversation led to many
more; and the hangman soon found, from a comparison of time, and place,
and dates, that he had executed the sentence of the law upon this woman,
himself. She had been tempted by want--as so many people are--into the
easy crime of passing forged notes. She was young and handsome; and the
traders who employ men, women, and children in this traffic, looked
upon her as one who was well adapted for their business, and who
would probably go on without suspicion for a long time. But they were
mistaken; for she was stopped in the commission of her very first
offence, and died for it. She was of gipsy blood, Sir John--'

It might have been the effect of a passing cloud which obscured the sun,
and cast a shadow on his face; but the knight turned deadly pale. Still
he met the locksmith's eye, as before.

'She was of gipsy blood, Sir John,' repeated Gabriel, 'and had a high,
free spirit. This, and her good looks, and her lofty manner, interested
some gentlemen who were easily moved