ess) laid his hand upon the faithful pocket-pistol which he
wore in his belt, had lost his balance, and was struggling with the
foaming tide.

All was now stupefaction.

But, with Captain Boldheart, to throw off his uniform coat regardless of
the various rich orders with which it was decorated, and to plunge into
the sea after the drowning giant, was the work of a moment. Maddening
was the excitement when boats were lowered; intense the joy when the
captain was seen holding up the drowning man with his teeth; deafening
the cheering when both were restored to the main deck of the Beauty. And
from the instant of his changing his wet clothes for dry ones, Captain
Boldheart had no such devoted though humble friend as William Boozey.

Boldheart now pointed to the horizon, and called the attention of his
crew to the taper spars of a ship lying snug in harbour under the guns
of a fort.

"She shall be ours at sunrise," said he. "Serve out a double allowance
of grog, and prepare for action."

All was now preparation.

When morning dawned after a sleepless night, it was seen that the
stranger was crowding on all sail to come out of the harbour and offer
battle. As the two ships came nearer to each other, the stranger fired a
gun and hoisted Roman colours. Boldheart then perceived her to be the
Latin-Grammar-Master's bark. Such indeed she was, and had been tacking
about the world in unavailing pursuit, from the time of his first taking
to a roving life.

Boldheart now addressed his men, promising to blow them up if he should
feel convinced that their reputation required it, and giving orders that
the Latin-Grammar-Master should be taken alive. He then dismissed them
to their quarters, and the fight began with a broadside from The Beauty.
She then veered round, and poured in another. The Scorpion (so was the
bark of the Latin-Grammar-Master appropriately called) was not slow to
return her fire, and a terrific cannonading ensued, in which the guns of
The Beauty did tremendous execution.

The Latin-Grammar-Master was seen upon the poop, in the midst of the
smoke and fire, encouraging his men. To do him justice, he was no
Craven, though his white hat, his short grey trousers, and his long
snuff-coloured surtout reaching to his heels--the self-same coat in
which he had spited Boldheart--contrasted most unfavourably with the
brilliant uniform of the latter. At this moment Boldheart, seizing a
pike and putting himself at the head of his men, gave the word to board.

A desperate conflict ensued in the hammock nettings--or somewhere in
about that direction--until the Latin-Grammar-Master, having all his
masts gone, his hull and rigging shot through and through, and seeing
Boldheart slashing a path towards him, hauled down his flag himself,
gave up his sword to Boldheart, and asked for quarter. Scarce had he
been put into the captain's boat, 'ere The Scorpion went down with all
on board.

On Captain Boldheart's now assembling his men, a circumstance occurred.
He found it necessary with one blow of his cutlass to kill the Cook,
who, having lost his brother in the late action, was making at the
Latin-Grammar-Master in an infuriated state, intent on his destruction
with a carving-knife.

Captain Boldheart then turned to the Latin-Grammar-Master, severely
reproaching him with his perfidy, and put it to his crew what they
considered that a master who spited a boy deserved?

They answered with one voice, "Death."

"It may be so," said the Captain; "but it shall never be said that
Boldheart stained his hour of triumph with the blood of his enemy.
Prepare the cutter."

The cutter was immediately prepared.

"Without taking your life," said the Captain, "I must yet for ever
deprive you of the power of spiting other boys. I shall turn you adrift
in this boat. You will find in her two oars, a compass, a bottle of rum,
a small cask of water, a piece of pork, a bag of biscuit, and my Latin
grammar. Go! and spite the natives, if you can find any."

Deeply conscious of this bitter sarcasm, the unhappy wretch was put into
the cutter, and was soon left far behind. He made no effort to row, but
was seen lying on his back with his legs up, when last made out by the
ship's telescopes.

A stiff breeze now beginning to blow, Captain Boldheart gave orders to
keep her S.S.W., easing her a little during the night by falling off a
point or two W. by W., or even by W.S., if she complained much. He then
retired for the night, having in truth much need of repose. In addition
to the fatigues he had undergone, this brave officer had received
sixteen wounds in the engagement, but had not mentioned it.

In the morning a white squall came on, and was succeeded by other
squalls of various colours. It thundered and lightened heavily for six
weeks. Hurricanes then set in for two months. Waterspouts and tornadoes
followed. The oldest sailor on board--and he was a very old one--had
never seen such weather. The Beauty lost all idea where she was, and the
carpenter reported six feet two of water in the hold. Everybody fell
senseless at the pumps every day.

Provisions now ran very low. 