 wine; 'that's entirely his affair. I wouldn't for the
world interfere with my son, Haredale, beyond a certain point. The
relationship between father and son, you know, is positively quite a
holy kind of bond.--WON'T you let me persuade you to take one glass of
wine? Well! as you please, as you please,' he added, helping himself
again.

'Chester,' said Mr Haredale, after a short silence, during which he had
eyed his smiling face from time to time intently, 'you have the head and
heart of an evil spirit in all matters of deception.'

'Your health!' said the other, with a nod. 'But I have interrupted
you--'

'If now,' pursued Mr Haredale, 'we should find it difficult to separate
these young people, and break off their intercourse--if, for instance,
you find it difficult on your side, what course do you intend to take?'

'Nothing plainer, my good fellow, nothing easier,' returned the other,
shrugging his shoulders and stretching himself more comfortably before
the fire. 'I shall then exert those powers on which you flatter me so
highly--though, upon my word, I don't deserve your compliments to their
full extent--and resort to a few little trivial subterfuges for rousing
jealousy and resentment. You see?'

'In short, justifying the means by the end, we are, as a last resource
for tearing them asunder, to resort to treachery and--and lying,' said
Mr Haredale.

'Oh dear no. Fie, fie!' returned the other, relishing a pinch of snuff
extremely. 'Not lying. Only a little management, a little diplomacy, a
little--intriguing, that's the word.'

'I wish,' said Mr Haredale, moving to and fro, and stopping, and moving
on again, like one who was ill at ease, 'that this could have been
foreseen or prevented. But as it has gone so far, and it is necessary
for us to act, it is of no use shrinking or regretting. Well! I shall
second your endeavours to the utmost of my power. There is one topic in
the whole wide range of human thoughts on which we both agree. We shall
act in concert, but apart. There will be no need, I hope, for us to meet
again.'

'Are you going?' said Mr Chester, rising with a graceful indolence. 'Let
me light you down the stairs.'

'Pray keep your seat,' returned the other drily, 'I know the way. So,
waving his hand slightly, and putting on his hat as he turned upon his
heel, he went clanking out as he had come, shut the door behind him, and
tramped down the echoing stairs.

'Pah! A very coarse animal, indeed!' said Mr Chester, composing himself
in the easy-chair again. 'A rough brute. Quite a human badger!'

John Willet and his friends, who had been listening intently for the
clash of swords, or firing of pistols in the great room, and had indeed
settled the order in which they should rush in when summoned--in which
procession old John had carefully arranged that he should bring up the
rear--were very much astonished to see Mr Haredale come down without a
scratch, call for his horse, and ride away thoughtfully at a footpace.
After some consideration, it was decided that he had left the gentleman
above, for dead, and had adopted this stratagem to divert suspicion or
pursuit.

As this conclusion involved the necessity of their going upstairs
forthwith, they were about to ascend in the order they had agreed
upon, when a smart ringing at the guest's bell, as if he had pulled it
vigorously, overthrew all their speculations, and involved them in
great uncertainty and doubt. At length Mr Willet agreed to go upstairs
himself, escorted by Hugh and Barnaby, as the strongest and stoutest
fellows on the premises, who were to make their appearance under
pretence of clearing away the glasses.

Under this protection, the brave and broad-faced John boldly entered
the room, half a foot in advance, and received an order for a boot-jack
without trembling. But when it was brought, and he leant his sturdy
shoulder to the guest, Mr Willet was observed to look very hard into his
boots as he pulled them off, and, by opening his eyes much wider than
usual, to appear to express some surprise and disappointment at not
finding them full of blood. He took occasion, too, to examine the
gentleman as closely as he could, expecting to discover sundry loopholes
in his person, pierced by his adversary's sword. Finding none,
however, and observing in course of time that his guest was as cool and
unruffled, both in his dress and temper, as he had been all day, old
John at last heaved a deep sigh, and began to think no duel had been
fought that night.

'And now, Willet,' said Mr Chester, 'if the room's well aired, I'll try
the merits of that famous bed.'

'The room, sir,' returned John, taking up a candle, and nudging Barnaby
and Hugh to accompany them, in case the gentleman should unexpectedly
drop down faint or dead from some internal wound, 'the room's as warm as
any toast in a tankard. Barnaby, take you that other candle, and go on
before. Hugh! Follow up, sir, with the easy-chair.'

In this order--and still, in his earnest inspection, holding his candle
very close to the guest; now making him feel extremely warm about the
legs, now threatening to set his wi