turned him, and
dragged Hugh several paces. This brought them out of the crowd, which
was pouring from the street into the vintner's cellars.

'Where's--where's Dennis?' said Hugh, coming to a stop, and checking
Barnaby with his strong arm. 'Where has he been all day? What did
he mean by leaving me as he did, in the jail, last night? Tell me,
you--d'ye hear!'

With a flourish of his dangerous weapon, he fell down upon the ground
like a log. After a minute, though already frantic with drinking and
with the wound in his head, he crawled to a stream of burning spirit
which was pouring down the kennel, and began to drink at it as if it
were a brook of water.

Barnaby drew him away, and forced him to rise. Though he could neither
stand nor walk, he involuntarily staggered to his horse, climbed upon
his back, and clung there. After vainly attempting to divest the animal
of his clanking trappings, Barnaby sprung up behind him, snatched the
bridle, turned into Leather Lane, which was close at hand, and urged the
frightened horse into a heavy trot.

He looked back, once, before he left the street; and looked upon a sight
not easily to be erased, even from his remembrance, so long as he had
life.

The vintner's house with a half-a-dozen others near at hand, was one
great, glowing blaze. All night, no one had essayed to quench the
flames, or stop their progress; but now a body of soldiers were actively
engaged in pulling down two old wooden houses, which were every moment
in danger of taking fire, and which could scarcely fail, if they were
left to burn, to extend the conflagration immensely. The tumbling
down of nodding walls and heavy blocks of wood, the hooting and
the execrations of the crowd, the distant firing of other military
detachments, the distracted looks and cries of those whose habitations
were in danger, the hurrying to and fro of frightened people with
their goods; the reflections in every quarter of the sky, of deep, red,
soaring flames, as though the last day had come and the whole universe
were burning; the dust, and smoke, and drift of fiery particles,
scorching and kindling all it fell upon; the hot unwholesome vapour,
the blight on everything; the stars, and moon, and very sky,
obliterated;--made up such a sum of dreariness and ruin, that it seemed
as if the face of Heaven were blotted out, and night, in its rest and
quiet, and softened light, never could look upon the earth again.

But there was a worse spectacle than this--worse by far than fire and
smoke, or even the rabble's unappeasable and maniac rage. The gutters
of the street, and every crack and fissure in the stones, ran with
scorching spirit, which being dammed up by busy hands, overflowed
the road and pavement, and formed a great pool, into which the people
dropped down dead by dozens. They lay in heaps all round this fearful
pond, husbands and wives, fathers and sons, mothers and daughters, women
with children in their arms and babies at their breasts, and drank until
they died. While some stooped with their lips to the brink and never
raised their heads again, others sprang up from their fiery draught,
and danced, half in a mad triumph, and half in the agony of suffocation,
until they fell, and steeped their corpses in the liquor that had killed
them. Nor was even this the worst or most appalling kind of death that
happened on this fatal night. From the burning cellars, where they
drank out of hats, pails, buckets, tubs, and shoes, some men were drawn,
alive, but all alight from head to foot; who, in their unendurable
anguish and suffering, making for anything that had the look of water,
rolled, hissing, in this hideous lake, and splashed up liquid fire
which lapped in all it met with as it ran along the surface, and
neither spared the living nor the dead. On this last night of the great
riots--for the last night it was--the wretched victims of a senseless
outcry, became themselves the dust and ashes of the flames they had
kindled, and strewed the public streets of London.

With all he saw in this last glance fixed indelibly upon his mind,
Barnaby hurried from the city which enclosed such horrors; and holding
down his head that he might not even see the glare of the fires upon the
quiet landscape, was soon in the still country roads.

He stopped at about half-a-mile from the shed where his father lay, and
with some difficulty making Hugh sensible that he must dismount, sunk
the horse's furniture in a pool of stagnant water, and turned the animal
loose. That done, he supported his companion as well as he could, and
led him slowly forward.



Chapter 69


It was the dead of night, and very dark, when Barnaby, with his
stumbling comrade, approached the place where he had left his father;
but he could see him stealing away into the gloom, distrustful even of
him, and rapidly retreating. After calling to him twice or thrice that
there was nothing to fear, but without effect, he suffered Hugh to sink
upon the ground, and followed to bring him back.

He continued to creep away, until Barnaby was close upon him; then
turned, and said in a terrible, though su