 fetch away his "things,"
when this dialogue passed:

    'Tell Mrs. Bardell she may put a bill up, as soon as she likes.'

    'Wery good, sir,' replied Mr. Weller; 'anythin' more, sir.'

    'Nothing more, Sam.'

    Mr. Weller stepped slowly to the door, as if he expected something
    more; slowly opened it, slowly stepped out, and had slowly closed it
    within a couple of inches, when Mr. Pickwick called out.

    'Sam.'

    'Sir,' said Mr. Weller, stepping quickly back, and closing the door
    behind him.

    'I have no objection, Sam, to your endeavouring to ascertain how Mrs.
    Bardell herself seems disposed towards me, and whether it is really
    probable that this vile and groundless action is to be carried to
    extremity.  _I say_, _I do not object to your doing this_, _if you
    wish it_, _Sam_,' said Mr. Pickwick.  Sam gave a short nod of
    intelligence and left the room.

Now this was very artful on the part of Mr. Pickwick, but it was a very
shallow sort of artfulness, and it was later to recoil on himself.  Sam
of course saw through it at once.  It never dawned on this simple-minded
man what use the Plaintiff's solicitors would make of his _demarche_.

When the subpoenas were served he rushed off to Perker:

    'They have subpoena'd my servant too,' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Sam?' said Perker.

    Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative.

    'Of course, my dear sir; of course.  I knew they would.  I could have
    told _you_ that a month ago.  You know, my dear sir, if you _will_
    take the management of your affairs into your own hands after
    intrusting them to your solicitor, you must also take the
    consequences.'  Here Mr. Perker drew himself up with conscious
    dignity, and brushed some stray grains of snuff from his shirt frill.

    'And what do they want him to prove?' asked Mr. Pickwick, after two
    or three minutes' silence.

    'That you sent him up to the plaintiff's to make some offer of a
    compromise, I suppose,' replied Perker.  'It don't matter much,
    though; I don't think many counsel could get a great deal out of
    _him_.'

    'I don't think they could,' said Mr. Pickwick.

The minutiae of legal process are prosaic and uninteresting, and it might
seem impossible to invest them with any dramatic interest; but how
admirably has Boz lightened up and coloured the simple incident of an
attorney's clerk--a common, vulgar fellow of the lowest type, arriving to
serve his subpoenas on the witnesses--all assumed to be hostile.  The
scene is full of touches of light comedy.

    'How de do, sir?' said Mr. Jackson, nodding to Mr. Pickwick.

    That gentlemen bowed, and looked somewhat surprised for the
    physiognomy of Mr. Jackson dwelt not in his recollection.

    'I have called from Dodson and Fogg's,' said Mr. Jackson, in an
    explanatory tone.

    Mr. Pickwick roused at the name.  'I refer you to my attorney, sir:
    Mr. Perker, of Gray's Inn,' said he.  'Waiter, show this gentleman
    out.'

    'Beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick,' said Jackson, deliberately
    depositing his hat on the floor, and drawing from his pocket the
    strip of parchment.  'But personal service, by clerk or agent, in
    these cases, you know, Mr. Pickwick--nothing like caution, sir, in
    all legal forms?'

    Here Mr. Jackson cast his eye on the parchment; and, resting his
    hands on the table, and looking round with a winning and persuasive,
    smile, said: 'Now, come; don't let's have no words about such a
    little matter as this.  Which of you gentlemen's name's Snodgrass?'

    At this inquiry Mr. Snodgrass gave such a very undisguised and
    palpable start, that no further reply was needed.

    'Ah! I thought so,' said Mr. Jackson, more affably than before.
    'I've got a little something to trouble you with, sir.'

    'Me!' exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass.

    'It's only a _subpoena_ in Bardell and Pickwick on behalf of the
    plaintiff,' replied Jackson, singling out one of the slips of paper,
    and producing a shilling from his waistcoat pocket.  'It'll come on,
    in the settens after Term; fourteenth of Febooary, we expect; we've
    marked it a special jury cause, and it's only ten down the paper.
    That's yours, Mr. Snodgrass.'  As Jackson said this he presented the
    parchment before the eyes of Mr. Snodgrass, and slipped the paper and
    the shilling into his hand.

    Mr. Tupman had witnessed this process in silent astonishment, when
    Jackson, turning sharply upon him, said:

    'I think I ain't mistaken when I say your name's Tupman, am I?'

    Mr. Tupman looked at Mr. Pickwick; but, perceiving no encouragement
    in that gentleman's widely-opened eyes to deny his name, said:

    'Yes, my name _is_ Tupman, sir.'

    'And that other gentleman's Mr. Winkle, I think?' said Jackson.

    Mr. Winkle faltered out a reply in the affirmative; and both
    gentlemen were forthwith invested with a slip of paper, and a
    shilling each, by the dexterous Mr. Jackson.

    'Now,' said Jackson, 'I'm affraid you'll think me rather troublesome,
    but I w