I
    don't, my Lord,' answered the chemist.

    'Swear the gentleman,' said the judge, peremptorily.

    The officer had got no farther than the 'You shall well and truly
    try,' when he was again interrupted by the chemist.

    'I am to be sworn, my Lord, am I?' said the chemist.

    'Certainly, sir,' replied the testy little judge.

    'Very well, my Lord,' replied the chemist in a resigned manner.
    'There'll be murder before this trial's over; that's all.  Swear me,
    if you please, sir;' and sworn the chemist was, before the judge
    could find words to utter.

    'I merely wanted to observe, my Lord,' said the chemist, taking his
    seat with great deliberation, 'that I've left nobody but an errand
    boy in my shop.  He is a very nice boy, my Lord, but he is not
    acquainted with drugs; and I know that the prevailing impression on
    his mind is, that Epsom salts means oxalic acid; and syrup of senna,
    laudanum.  That's all, my Lord.'  With this, the tall chemist
    composed himself into a comfortable attitude, and, assuming a
    pleasant expression of countenance, appeared to have prepared himself
    for the worst.

One who was born in the same year as Boz, but who was to live for thirty
years after him, Henry Russell--composer and singer of "The Ivy
Green"--was, when a youth, apprenticed to a chemist, and when about ten
years old, that is five years before Bardell _v._ Pickwick, was left in
charge of the shop.  He discovered just in time that he had served a
customer who had asked for Epsom salts with poison sufficient to kill
fifty people.  On this he gave up the profession.  I have little doubt
that he told this story to his friend a dozen years later, and that it
was on Boz's mind when he wrote.  Epsom salts was the drug mentioned in
both instances.

It must be said that even in our day a defendant for Breach, with Mr.
Pickwick's story and surroundings, would have had small chance with a
city jury.  They saw before them a benevolent-looking Lothario, of a
Quaker-like air, while all the witnesses against him were his three most
intimate friends and his own man.

We have, of course, testy judges now, who may be "short" in manner, but I
think it can be affirmed that no judge of our day could behave to counsel
or witnesses as Mr. Justice Stareleigh did.  It is, in fact, now the tone
for a judge to affect a sort of polished courtesy, and to impart a sort
of light gaiety to the business he is transacting.  All asperity and
tyrannous rudeness is held to be out of place.  Hectoring and bullying of
witnesses will not be tolerated.  The last exhibition was perhaps that of
the late Dr. Kenealy in the Tichborne case.

All the swearing of jurymen before the court, with the intervention of
the judge, has been got rid of.  The Master of the Court, or Chief Clerk,
has a number of interviews--at his public desk--with important
individuals, bringing him signed papers.  These are excuses of some
sort--medical certificates, etc.--with a view to be "let off" serving.
Some--most, perhaps--are accepted, some refused.  A man of wealth and
importance can have little difficulty.  Of course this would be denied by
the jurists: but, somehow, the great guns contrive not to attend.  At ten
o'clock this officer proceeds to swear the jury, which is happily
accomplished by the time the judge enters.




SERJEANT BUZFUZ.


Mr. Pickwick, considering the critical nature of his case, was certainly
unfortunate in his solicitor, as well as in the Counsel selected by his
solicitors.  The other side were particularly favoured in this matter.
They had a pushful bustling "wide-awake" firm of solicitors, who let not
a point escape.  Sergeant Buzfuz was exactly the sort of advocate for the
case--masterful, unscrupulous, eloquent, and with a singularly ingenious
faculty for putting everything on his client's side in the best light,
and his adversary's in the worst.  He could "tear a witness to pieces,"
and turn him inside out.  His junior, Skimpin, was glib, ready-armed at
all points, and singularly adroit in "making a hare" of any witness who
fell into his hands, _teste_ Winkle.  He had all the professional devices
for dealing with a witness's answers, and twisting them to his purpose,
at his fingers' ends.  He was the Wontner or Ballantyne of his day.  Mr.
Pickwick's "bar" was quite outmatched.  They were rather a feeble lot,
too respectable altogether, and really not familiar with this line of
business.  Even the judge was against them from the very start, so Mr.
Pickwick had very poor chances indeed.  All this was due to that
old-fashioned and rather incapable "Family Solicitor" Perker.

                     [Picture: Serjeant Buzfuz, K.C.]

Serjeant Buzfuz is known the world all over, at least wherever English is
known.  I myself was once startled in a fashionable West End church to
hear a preacher, when emphasizing the value and necessity of Prayer, and
the certainty with which it is responded to, use this illustration: "As
Serjeant Buzfuz said to Sam Weller, '_There is little to do and plenty to
get_.'"  Needless to say, an am