with that unfort'nate Bloody Mary, and call
her name out till they're hoarse. They're all Protestants too--every man
and boy among 'em: and Protestants are very fond of spoons, I find, and
silver-plate in general, whenever area-gates is left open accidentally.
I wish that was the worst of it, and that no more harm might be to come;
but if you don't stop these ugly customers in time, Mr Gashford (and I
know you; you're the man that blows the fire), you'll find 'em grow a
little bit too strong for you. One of these evenings, when the weather
gets warmer and Protestants are thirsty, they'll be pulling London
down,--and I never heard that Bloody Mary went as far as THAT.'

Gashford had vanished long ago, and these remarks had been bestowed on
empty air. Not at all discomposed by the discovery, John Grueby fixed
his hat on, wrongside foremost that he might be unconscious of the
shadow of the obnoxious cockade, and withdrew to bed; shaking his head
in a very gloomy and prophetic manner until he reached his chamber.



Chapter 36


Gashford, with a smiling face, but still with looks of profound
deference and humility, betook himself towards his master's room,
smoothing his hair down as he went, and humming a psalm tune. As he
approached Lord George's door, he cleared his throat and hummed more
vigorously.

There was a remarkable contrast between this man's occupation at the
moment, and the expression of his countenance, which was singularly
repulsive and malicious. His beetling brow almost obscured his eyes;
his lip was curled contemptuously; his very shoulders seemed to sneer in
stealthy whisperings with his great flapped ears.

'Hush!' he muttered softly, as he peeped in at the chamber-door. 'He
seems to be asleep. Pray Heaven he is! Too much watching, too much care,
too much thought--ah! Lord preserve him for a martyr! He is a saint, if
ever saint drew breath on this bad earth.'

Placing his light upon a table, he walked on tiptoe to the fire, and
sitting in a chair before it with his back towards the bed, went on
communing with himself like one who thought aloud:

'The saviour of his country and his country's religion, the friend of
his poor countrymen, the enemy of the proud and harsh; beloved of the
rejected and oppressed, adored by forty thousand bold and loyal English
hearts--what happy slumbers his should be!' And here he sighed, and
warmed his hands, and shook his head as men do when their hearts are
full, and heaved another sigh, and warmed his hands again.

'Why, Gashford?' said Lord George, who was lying broad awake, upon his
side, and had been staring at him from his entrance.

'My--my lord,' said Gashford, starting and looking round as though in
great surprise. 'I have disturbed you!'

'I have not been sleeping.'

'Not sleeping!' he repeated, with assumed confusion. 'What can I say
for having in your presence given utterance to thoughts--but they were
sincere--they were sincere!' exclaimed the secretary, drawing his sleeve
in a hasty way across his eyes; 'and why should I regret your having
heard them?'

'Gashford,' said the poor lord, stretching out his hand with manifest
emotion. 'Do not regret it. You love me well, I know--too well. I don't
deserve such homage.'

Gashford made no reply, but grasped the hand and pressed it to his lips.
Then rising, and taking from the trunk a little desk, he placed it on
a table near the fire, unlocked it with a key he carried in his pocket,
sat down before it, took out a pen, and, before dipping it in the
inkstand, sucked it--to compose the fashion of his mouth perhaps, on
which a smile was hovering yet.

'How do our numbers stand since last enrolling-night?' inquired Lord
George. 'Are we really forty thousand strong, or do we still speak in
round numbers when we take the Association at that amount?'

'Our total now exceeds that number by a score and three,' Gashford
replied, casting his eyes upon his papers.

'The funds?'

'Not VERY improving; but there is some manna in the wilderness, my lord.
Hem! On Friday night the widows' mites dropped in. "Forty scavengers,
three and fourpence. An aged pew-opener of St Martin's parish, sixpence.
A bell-ringer of the established church, sixpence. A Protestant infant,
newly born, one halfpenny. The United Link Boys, three shillings--one
bad. The anti-popish prisoners in Newgate, five and fourpence. A friend
in Bedlam, half-a-crown. Dennis the hangman, one shilling."'

'That Dennis,' said his lordship, 'is an earnest man. I marked him in
the crowd in Welbeck Street, last Friday.'

'A good man,' rejoined the secretary, 'a staunch, sincere, and truly
zealous man.'

'He should be encouraged,' said Lord George. 'Make a note of Dennis.
I'll talk with him.'

Gashford obeyed, and went on reading from his list:

'"The Friends of Reason, half-a-guinea. The Friends of Liberty,
half-a-guinea. The Friends of Peace, half-a-guinea. The Friends of
Charity, half-a-guinea. The Friends of Mercy, half-a-guinea. The
Associated Rememberers of Bloody Mary, half-a-guinea. The United
Bulldogs, half-a-guinea."'

'The United Bulldogs,' said Lord George, biting his nail