 told that there was a great laugh--that
even "the little Judge smiled:" a good touch, for he enjoyed, like other
judges, seeing his learned brother get a fall--'tis human nature.

It must be said the impression of a listener, who had heard all this
could have been anything but favourable to Mr. Pickwick.  No doubt there
was his paternally benevolent character to correct it: but even this
might go against him as it would suggest a sort of hypocrisy.  Even the
firmest friends, in their surprise, do not pause to debate or reason;
they are astonished and wonder exceedingly.




WINKLE'S EVIDENCE.


Skimpin may have been intended for Wilkin, a later Serjeant and
well-known in the 'fifties, and whose style and manner is reproduced.  We
could not ask a better junior in a "touch and go" case.  He was as ready
to take advantage of any opening as was the late Lord Bowen, when he was
junior in the Tichborne case.

                          [Picture: Mr. Skimpin]

On entering the Box, Mr. Winkle "bowed to the Judge," with considerable
deference, a politeness quite thrown away.  "Don't look at me sir," said
the Judge sharply, "look at the Jury."  This was ungracious, but judges
generally don't relish any advances from witnesses or others.

When poor Winkle was accused by the Judge of giving his name as Daniel,
he was told that "he had better be careful:" on which the ready Skimpin:
"Now, Mr. Winkle attend to me if you please: and let me recommend you,
for your own sake, to bear in mind his lordship's injunction to be
careful."  Thus by the agency of Judge and counsel witness was
discredited at starting and of course flurried.

    'I believe you are a particular friend of Pickwick, the defendant,
    are you not?

Winkle, eager to retrieve himself by being "careful" began--

    'I have known Mr. Pickwick now as well as I recollect at this moment,
    nearly--'

    'Pray, Mr. Winkle, don't evade the question.  Are you, or are you not
    a particular friend of the defendant?'

    'I was just about to say that--'

    'Will you, or will you not answer my question, sir?'

    'If you don't you'll be committed, sir,' interposed the little Judge.

    'Come, sir,' said Mr. Skimpin, '_yes or no_, _if you please_.'

    'Yes, I am,' replied Mr. Winkle.

    '_Yes_, _you are_.  _And why couldn't you say that at once_, _sir_?'

I think there is no more happy touch of legal satire in the books than
that about "What the soldier said."  It is perfect, so complete, that it
is always understood by unprofessional readers.  The lawyer feels at once
that it is as true as it is happy.

    'Little to do and plenty to get,' said Serjeant Buzfuz to Sam.

    'O, quite enough to get, sir, as the soldier said ven they ordered
    him three hundred and fifty lashes.'

    '_You must not tell us what the soldier or any other man said_,
    _sir_; _it's not evidence_,' interposed the Judge.

Who will forget the roar that always greeted this sally when Boz read it,
or the low and slow solemnity which he imparted to the Judge's dictum.
As an illustration it is simply admirable.

Boz himself would have been pleased to find himself quoted in two
impressive legal tomes of some 1800 pages.  The great and laborious John
Pitt Taylor could not have been wholly a legal dry-as-dust: for the man
who could have gravely entered Bardell _v._ Pickwick in his notes and
have quoted a passage must have had a share of humour.

Most people know that it is a strict principle that "hearsay evidence" of
an utterance will not be accepted in lieu of that of the person to whom
the remark was made.  Neither can we think it out of probability that
such an objection may have been made by some over punctilious judge
wishing to restrain Sam's exuberance.  A Scotch judge once quoted in
court a passage from _The Antiquary_ in which he said the true view of an
intricate point was given; but then Scott was a lawyer.

It is requisite, says Mr. John Pitt Taylor (p. 500) speaking of "hearsay
evidence" that whatever facts a witness speaks, he should be confined to
those lying within his own knowledge.  For every witness should give his
testimony on oath, and should be subject to cross examination.  But
testimony from the relation of third persons cannot be subject to these
tests.  This rule of exclusion has been recognised as a fundamental
principle of the law of evidence ever since the time of Charles II.  To
this he adds a note, with all due gravity: "The rule excluding heresay
evidence, or rather the mode in which that rule is frequently
misunderstood in Courts of Justice, is amusingly caricatured by Mr.
Dickens _in his report_ of the case of Bardell _v._ Pickwick, p. 367."

Bardell _v._ Pickwick!  He thus puts it with the many thousand or tens of
thousand cases quoted, and he has even found a place for it in his index
of places.  He then goes on to quote the passage, just as he would quote
from Barnwall and Adolphus.

How sagacious--full of legal point--is Boz's comment on Winkle's
incoherent evidence.  Phunky asked him whether he had any reason to
suppose that Pickwick was about to be married