ait. Here is the key of the door.
I am afraid you'll find it inconveniently large; but as the tenement is
yours, your good-nature will excuse that, Haredale, I am certain!'



Chapter 27


Mr Haredale stood in the widow's parlour with the door-key in his hand,
gazing by turns at Mr Chester and at Gabriel Varden, and occasionally
glancing downward at the key as in the hope that of its own accord
it would unlock the mystery; until Mr Chester, putting on his hat and
gloves, and sweetly inquiring whether they were walking in the same
direction, recalled him to himself.

'No,' he said. 'Our roads diverge--widely, as you know. For the present,
I shall remain here.'

'You will be hipped, Haredale; you will be miserable, melancholy,
utterly wretched,' returned the other. 'It's a place of the very last
description for a man of your temper. I know it will make you very
miserable.'

'Let it,' said Mr Haredale, sitting down; 'and thrive upon the thought.
Good night!'

Feigning to be wholly unconscious of the abrupt wave of the hand which
rendered this farewell tantamount to a dismissal, Mr Chester retorted
with a bland and heartfelt benediction, and inquired of Gabriel in what
direction HE was going.

'Yours, sir, would be too much honour for the like of me,' replied the
locksmith, hesitating.

'I wish you to remain here a little while, Varden,' said Mr Haredale,
without looking towards them. 'I have a word or two to say to you.'

'I will not intrude upon your conference another moment,' said Mr
Chester with inconceivable politeness. 'May it be satisfactory to you
both! God bless you!' So saying, and bestowing upon the locksmith a most
refulgent smile, he left them.

'A deplorably constituted creature, that rugged person,' he said, as
he walked along the street; 'he is an atrocity that carries its own
punishment along with it--a bear that gnaws himself. And here is one
of the inestimable advantages of having a perfect command over one's
inclinations. I have been tempted in these two short interviews, to draw
upon that fellow, fifty times. Five men in six would have yielded to the
impulse. By suppressing mine, I wound him deeper and more keenly than if
I were the best swordsman in all Europe, and he the worst. You are the
wise man's very last resource,' he said, tapping the hilt of his weapon;
'we can but appeal to you when all else is said and done. To come to you
before, and thereby spare our adversaries so much, is a barbarian mode
of warfare, quite unworthy of any man with the remotest pretensions to
delicacy of feeling, or refinement.'

He smiled so very pleasantly as he communed with himself after this
manner, that a beggar was emboldened to follow for alms, and to dog
his footsteps for some distance. He was gratified by the circumstance,
feeling it complimentary to his power of feature, and as a reward
suffered the man to follow him until he called a chair, when he
graciously dismissed him with a fervent blessing.

'Which is as easy as cursing,' he wisely added, as he took his seat,
'and more becoming to the face.--To Clerkenwell, my good creatures, if
you please!' The chairmen were rendered quite vivacious by having such a
courteous burden, and to Clerkenwell they went at a fair round trot.

Alighting at a certain point he had indicated to them upon the road, and
paying them something less than they expected from a fare of such gentle
speech, he turned into the street in which the locksmith dwelt, and
presently stood beneath the shadow of the Golden Key. Mr Tappertit, who
was hard at work by lamplight, in a corner of the workshop, remained
unconscious of his presence until a hand upon his shoulder made him
start and turn his head.

'Industry,' said Mr Chester, 'is the soul of business, and the keystone
of prosperity. Mr Tappertit, I shall expect you to invite me to dinner
when you are Lord Mayor of London.'

'Sir,' returned the 'prentice, laying down his hammer, and rubbing
his nose on the back of a very sooty hand, 'I scorn the Lord Mayor and
everything that belongs to him. We must have another state of society,
sir, before you catch me being Lord Mayor. How de do, sir?'

'The better, Mr Tappertit, for looking into your ingenuous face once
more. I hope you are well.'

'I am as well, sir,' said Sim, standing up to get nearer to his ear, and
whispering hoarsely, 'as any man can be under the aggrawations to which
I am exposed. My life's a burden to me. If it wasn't for wengeance, I'd
play at pitch and toss with it on the losing hazard.'

'Is Mrs Varden at home?' said Mr Chester.

'Sir,' returned Sim, eyeing him over with a look of concentrated
expression,--'she is. Did you wish to see her?'

Mr Chester nodded.

'Then come this way, sir,' said Sim, wiping his face upon his apron.
'Follow me, sir.--Would you permit me to whisper in your ear, one half a
second?'

'By all means.'

Mr Tappertit raised himself on tiptoe, applied his lips to Mr Chester's
ear, drew back his head without saying anything, looked hard at
him, applied them to his ear again, again drew back, and finally
whispered--'The name is Joseph Willet. Hush! I say no more