ng on
to-day, Joe? Is she as pretty as ever? Nay, don't blush, man.'

'If I coloured at all, Mr Edward,' said Joe, 'which I didn't know I did,
it was to think I should have been such a fool as ever to have any hope
of her. She's as far out of my reach as--as Heaven is.'

'Well, Joe, I hope that's not altogether beyond it,' said Edward,
good-humouredly. 'Eh?'

'Ah!' sighed Joe. 'It's all very fine talking, sir. Proverbs are easily
made in cold blood. But it can't be helped. Are you bound for our house,
sir?'

'Yes. As I am not quite strong yet, I shall stay there to-night, and
ride home coolly in the morning.'

'If you're in no particular hurry,' said Joe after a short silence, 'and
will bear with the pace of this poor jade, I shall be glad to ride on
with you to the Warren, sir, and hold your horse when you dismount.
It'll save you having to walk from the Maypole, there and back again. I
can spare the time well, sir, for I am too soon.'

'And so am I,' returned Edward, 'though I was unconsciously riding fast
just now, in compliment I suppose to the pace of my thoughts, which were
travelling post. We will keep together, Joe, willingly, and be as good
company as may be. And cheer up, cheer up, think of the locksmith's
daughter with a stout heart, and you shall win her yet.'

Joe shook his head; but there was something so cheery in the buoyant
hopeful manner of this speech, that his spirits rose under its
influence, and communicated as it would seem some new impulse even to
the grey mare, who, breaking from her sober amble into a gentle trot,
emulated the pace of Edward Chester's horse, and appeared to flatter
herself that he was doing his very best.

It was a fine dry night, and the light of a young moon, which was then
just rising, shed around that peace and tranquillity which gives to
evening time its most delicious charm. The lengthened shadows of the
trees, softened as if reflected in still water, threw their carpet on
the path the travellers pursued, and the light wind stirred yet more
softly than before, as though it were soothing Nature in her sleep. By
little and little they ceased talking, and rode on side by side in a
pleasant silence.

'The Maypole lights are brilliant to-night,' said Edward, as they rode
along the lane from which, while the intervening trees were bare of
leaves, that hostelry was visible.

'Brilliant indeed, sir,' returned Joe, rising in his stirrups to get
a better view. 'Lights in the large room, and a fire glimmering in the
best bedchamber? Why, what company can this be for, I wonder!'

'Some benighted horseman wending towards London, and deterred from
going on to-night by the marvellous tales of my friend the highwayman, I
suppose,' said Edward.

'He must be a horseman of good quality to have such accommodations. Your
bed too, sir--!'

'No matter, Joe. Any other room will do for me. But come--there's nine
striking. We may push on.'

They cantered forward at as brisk a pace as Joe's charger could attain,
and presently stopped in the little copse where he had left her in the
morning. Edward dismounted, gave his bridle to his companion, and walked
with a light step towards the house.

A female servant was waiting at a side gate in the garden-wall, and
admitted him without delay. He hurried along the terrace-walk, and
darted up a flight of broad steps leading into an old and gloomy hall,
whose walls were ornamented with rusty suits of armour, antlers, weapons
of the chase, and suchlike garniture. Here he paused, but not long; for
as he looked round, as if expecting the attendant to have followed, and
wondering she had not done so, a lovely girl appeared, whose dark hair
next moment rested on his breast. Almost at the same instant a heavy
hand was laid upon her arm, Edward felt himself thrust away, and Mr
Haredale stood between them.

He regarded the young man sternly without removing his hat; with
one hand clasped his niece, and with the other, in which he held his
riding-whip, motioned him towards the door. The young man drew himself
up, and returned his gaze.

'This is well done of you, sir, to corrupt my servants, and enter my
house unbidden and in secret, like a thief!' said Mr Haredale. 'Leave
it, sir, and return no more.'

'Miss Haredale's presence,' returned the young man, 'and your
relationship to her, give you a licence which, if you are a brave man,
you will not abuse. You have compelled me to this course, and the fault
is yours--not mine.'

'It is neither generous, nor honourable, nor the act of a true man,
sir,' retorted the other, 'to tamper with the affections of a weak,
trusting girl, while you shrink, in your unworthiness, from her guardian
and protector, and dare not meet the light of day. More than this I will
not say to you, save that I forbid you this house, and require you to be
gone.'

'It is neither generous, nor honourable, nor the act of a true man to
play the spy,' said Edward. 'Your words imply dishonour, and I reject
them with the scorn they merit.'

'You will find,' said Mr Haredale, calmly, 'your trusty go-between in
waiting at the gate by which you entered. I have pla