he is a most consummate
actress, she understands quite as little of the matter as we do?"

"That is the problem which we have to solve," Holmes answered, "and for
my part I shall set about it by presuming that my reasoning is correct,
and that a double murder has been committed.  One of these ears is a
woman's, small, finely formed, and pierced for an earring.  The other
is a man's, sun-burned, discoloured, and also pierced for an earring.
These two people are presumably dead, or we should have heard their
story before now.  To-day is Friday.  The packet was posted on Thursday
morning.  The tragedy, then, occurred on Wednesday or Tuesday, or
earlier.  If the two people were murdered, who but their murderer would
have sent this sign of his work to Miss Cushing?  We may take it that
the sender of the packet is the man whom we want. But he must have some
strong reason for sending Miss Cushing this packet.  What reason then?
It must have been to tell her that the deed was done! or to pain her,
perhaps.  But in that case she knows who it is.  Does she know?  I
doubt it.  If she knew, why should she call the police in?  She might
have buried the ears, and no one would have been the wiser. That is
what she would have done if she had wished to shield the criminal.  But
if she does not wish to shield him she would give his name.  There is a
tangle here which needs straightening out."  He had been talking in a
high, quick voice, staring blankly up over the garden fence, but now he
sprang briskly to his feet and walked towards the house.

"I have a few questions to ask Miss Cushing," said he.

"In that case I may leave you here," said Lestrade, "for I have another
small business on hand.  I think that I have nothing further to learn
from Miss Cushing.  You will find me at the police-station."

"We shall look in on our way to the train," answered Holmes.  A moment
later he and I were back in the front room, where the impassive lady
was still quietly working away at her antimacassar.  She put it down on
her lap as we entered and looked at us with her frank, searching blue
eyes.

"I am convinced, sir," she said, "that this matter is a mistake, and
that the parcel was never meant for me at all.  I have said this
several times to the gentlemen from Scotland Yard, but he simply laughs
at me.  I have not an enemy in the world, as far as I know, so why
should anyone play me such a trick?"

"I am coming to be of the same opinion, Miss Cushing," said Holmes,
taking a seat beside her.  "I think that it is more than probable--" He
paused, and I was surprised, on glancing round to see that he was
staring with singular intentness at the lady's profile.  Surprise and
satisfaction were both for an instant to be read upon his eager face,
though when she glanced round to find out the cause of his silence he
had become as demure as ever.  I stared hard myself at her flat,
grizzled hair, her trim cap, her little gilt earrings, her placid
features; but I could see nothing which could account for my
companion's evident excitement.

"There were one or two questions--"

"Oh, I am weary of questions!" cried Miss Cushing impatiently.

"You have two sisters, I believe."

"How could you know that?"

"I observed the very instant that I entered the room that you have a
portrait group of three ladies upon the mantelpiece, one of whom is
undoubtedly yourself, while the others are so exceedingly like you that
there could be no doubt of the relationship."

"Yes, you are quite right.  Those are my sisters, Sarah and Mary."

"And here at my elbow is another portrait, taken at Liverpool, of your
younger sister, in the company of a man who appears to be a steward by
his uniform.  I observe that she was unmarried at the time."

"You are very quick at observing."

"That is my trade."

"Well, you are quite right.  But she was married to Mr. Browner a few
days afterwards.  He was on the South American line when that was
taken, but he was so fond of her that he couldn't abide to leave her
for so long, and he got into the Liverpool and London boats."

"Ah, the Conqueror, perhaps?"

"No, the May Day, when last I heard.  Jim came down here to see me
once.  That was before he broke the pledge; but afterwards he would
always take drink when he was ashore, and a little drink would send him
stark, staring mad.  Ah! it was a bad day that ever he took a glass in
his hand again.  First he dropped me, then he quarrelled with Sarah,
and now that Mary has stopped writing we don't know how things are
going with them."

It was evident that Miss Cushing had come upon a subject on which she
felt very deeply.  Like most people who lead a lonely life, she was shy
at first, but ended by becoming extremely communicative.  She told us
many details about her brother-in-law the steward, and then wandering
off on the subject of her former lodgers, the medical students, she
gave us a long account of their delinquencies, with their names and
those of their hospitals.  Holmes listened attentively to everything,
throwing in a question from time to time.

"About your second sister, Sarah," said he.  "I wond