the outset by an incident
which left the most sinister impression upon my mind. The approach to
the spot at which the tragedy occurred is down a narrow, winding,
country lane.  While we made our way along it we heard the rattle of a
carriage coming towards us and stood aside to let it pass.  As it drove
by us I caught a glimpse through the closed window of a horribly
contorted, grinning face glaring out at us.  Those staring eyes and
gnashing teeth flashed past us like a dreadful vision.

"My brothers!" cried Mortimer Tregennis, white to his lips. "They are
taking them to Helston."

We looked with horror after the black carriage, lumbering upon its way.
Then we turned our steps towards this ill-omened house in which they
had met their strange fate.

It was a large and bright dwelling, rather a villa than a cottage, with
a considerable garden which was already, in that Cornish air, well
filled with spring flowers.  Towards this garden the window of the
sitting-room fronted, and from it, according to Mortimer Tregennis,
must have come that thing of evil which had by sheer horror in a single
instant blasted their minds.  Holmes walked slowly and thoughtfully
among the flower-plots and along the path before we entered the porch.
So absorbed was he in his thoughts, I remember, that he stumbled over
the watering-pot, upset its contents, and deluged both our feet and the
garden path.  Inside the house we were met by the elderly Cornish
housekeeper, Mrs. Porter, who, with the aid of a young girl, looked
after the wants of the family.  She readily answered all Holmes's
questions.  She had heard nothing in the night.  Her employers had all
been in excellent spirits lately, and she had never known them more
cheerful and prosperous.  She had fainted with horror upon entering the
room in the morning and seeing that dreadful company round the table.
She had, when she recovered, thrown open the window to let the morning
air in, and had run down to the lane, whence she sent a farm-lad for
the doctor.  The lady was on her bed upstairs if we cared to see her.
It took four strong men to get the brothers into the asylum carriage.
She would not herself stay in the house another day and was starting
that very afternoon to rejoin her family at St. Ives.

We ascended the stairs and viewed the body.  Miss Brenda Tregennis had
been a very beautiful girl, though now verging upon middle age.  Her
dark, clear-cut face was handsome, even in death, but there still
lingered upon it something of that convulsion of horror which had been
her last human emotion.  From her bedroom we descended to the
sitting-room, where this strange tragedy had actually occurred.  The
charred ashes of the overnight fire lay in the grate.  On the table
were the four guttered and burned-out candles, with the cards scattered
over its surface.  The chairs had been moved back against the walls,
but all else was as it had been the night before.  Holmes paced with
light, swift steps about the room; he sat in the various chairs,
drawing them up and reconstructing their positions.  He tested how much
of the garden was visible; he examined the floor, the ceiling, and the
fireplace; but never once did I see that sudden brightening of his eyes
and tightening of his lips which would have told me that he saw some
gleam of light in this utter darkness.

"Why a fire?" he asked once.  "Had they always a fire in this small
room on a spring evening?"

Mortimer Tregennis explained that the night was cold and damp. For that
reason, after his arrival, the fire was lit.  "What are you going to do
now, Mr. Holmes?" he asked.

My friend smiled and laid his hand upon my arm.  "I think, Watson, that
I shall resume that course of tobacco-poisoning which you have so often
and so justly condemned," said he.  "With your permission, gentlemen,
we will now return to our cottage, for I am not aware that any new
factor is likely to come to our notice here.  I will turn the facts
over in my mind, Mr. Tregennis, and should anything occur to me I will
certainly communicate with you and the vicar.  In the meantime I wish
you both good-morning."

It was not until long after we were back in Poldhu Cottage that Holmes
broke his complete and absorbed silence.  He sat coiled in his
armchair, his haggard and ascetic face hardly visible amid the blue
swirl of his tobacco smoke, his black brows drawn down, his forehead
contracted, his eyes vacant and far away.  Finally he laid down his
pipe and sprang to his feet.

"It won't do, Watson!" said he with a laugh.  "Let us walk along the
cliffs together and search for flint arrows.  We are more likely to
find them than clues to this problem.  To let the brain work without
sufficient material is like racing an engine.  It racks itself to
pieces.  The sea air, sunshine, and patience, Watson--all else will
come.

"Now, let us calmly define our position, Watson," he continued as we
skirted the cliffs together.  "Let us get a firm grip of the very
little which we DO know, so that when fresh facts arise we may be ready
to fit them into their places.  I take it, in the first place, tha