rt I must ask you
a few questions, Mr. Mortimer Tregennis."

The other had been silent all this time, but I had observed that his
more controlled excitement was even greater than the obtrusive emotion
of the clergyman.  He sat with a pale, drawn face, his anxious gaze
fixed upon Holmes, and his thin hands clasped convulsively together.
His pale lips quivered as he listened to the dreadful experience which
had befallen his family, and his dark eyes seemed to reflect something
of the horror of the scene.

"Ask what you like, Mr. Holmes," said he eagerly.  "It is a bad thing
to speak of, but I will answer you the truth."

"Tell me about last night."

"Well, Mr. Holmes, I supped there, as the vicar has said, and my elder
brother George proposed a game of whist afterwards.  We sat down about
nine o'clock.  It was a quarter-past ten when I moved to go.  I left
them all round the table, as merry as could be."

"Who let you out?"

"Mrs. Porter had gone to bed, so I let myself out.  I shut the hall
door behind me.  The window of the room in which they sat was closed,
but the blind was not drawn down.  There was no change in door or
window this morning, or any reason to think that any stranger had been
to the house.  Yet there they sat, driven clean mad with terror, and
Brenda lying dead of fright, with her head hanging over the arm of the
chair.  I'll never get the sight of that room out of my mind so long as
I live."

"The facts, as you state them, are certainly most remarkable," said
Holmes.  "I take it that you have no theory yourself which can in any
way account for them?"

"It's devilish, Mr. Holmes, devilish!" cried Mortimer Tregennis. "It is
not of this world.  Something has come into that room which has dashed
the light of reason from their minds.  What human contrivance could do
that?"

"I fear," said Holmes, "that if the matter is beyond humanity it is
certainly beyond me.  Yet we must exhaust all natural explanations
before we fall back upon such a theory as this.  As to yourself, Mr.
Tregennis, I take it you were divided in some way from your family,
since they lived together and you had rooms apart?"

"That is so, Mr. Holmes, though the matter is past and done with. We
were a family of tin-miners at Redruth, but we sold our venture to a
company, and so retired with enough to keep us.  I won't deny that
there was some feeling about the division of the money and it stood
between us for a time, but it was all forgiven and forgotten, and we
were the best of friends together."

"Looking back at the evening which you spent together, does anything
stand out in your memory as throwing any possible light upon the
tragedy?  Think carefully, Mr. Tregennis, for any clue which can help
me."

"There is nothing at all, sir."

"Your people were in their usual spirits?"

"Never better."

"Were they nervous people?  Did they ever show any apprehension of
coming danger?"

"Nothing of the kind."

"You have nothing to add then, which could assist me?"

Mortimer Tregennis considered earnestly for a moment.

"There is one thing occurs to me," said he at last.  "As we sat at the
table my back was to the window, and my brother George, he being my
partner at cards, was facing it.  I saw him once look hard over my
shoulder, so I turned round and looked also.  The blind was up and the
window shut, but I could just make out the bushes on the lawn, and it
seemed to me for a moment that I saw something moving among them.  I
couldn't even say if it was man or animal, but I just thought there was
something there.  When I asked him what he was looking at, he told me
that he had the same feeling.  That is all that I can say."

"Did you not investigate?"

"No; the matter passed as unimportant."

"You left them, then, without any premonition of evil?"

"None at all."

"I am not clear how you came to hear the news so early this morning."

"I am an early riser and generally take a walk before breakfast. This
morning I had hardly started when the doctor in his carriage overtook
me.  He told me that old Mrs. Porter had sent a boy down with an urgent
message.  I sprang in beside him and we drove on. When we got there we
looked into that dreadful room.  The candles and the fire must have
burned out hours before, and they had been sitting there in the dark
until dawn had broken.  The doctor said Brenda must have been dead at
least six hours.  There were no signs of violence.  She just lay across
the arm of the chair with that look on her face.  George and Owen were
singing snatches of songs and gibbering like two great apes.  Oh, it
was awful to see!  I couldn't stand it, and the doctor was as white as
a sheet.  Indeed, he fell into a chair in a sort of faint, and we
nearly had him on our hands as well."

"Remarkable--most remarkable!" said Holmes, rising and taking his hat.
"I think, perhaps, we had better go down to Tredannick Wartha without
further delay.  I confess that I have seldom known a case which at
first sight presented a more singular problem."


Our proceedings of that first morning did little to advance the
investigation.  It was marked, however, at 