nly one
possible way.  You are aware that the Underground runs clear of tunnels
at some points in the West End.  I had a vague memory that as I have
travelled by it I have occasionally seen windows just above my head.
Now, suppose that a train halted under such a window, would there be
any difficulty in laying a body upon the roof?"

"It seems most improbable."

"We must fall back upon the old axiom that when all other contingencies
fail, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.  Here
all other contingencies HAVE failed.  When I found that the leading
international agent, who had just left London, lived in a row of houses
which abutted upon the Underground, I was so pleased that you were a
little astonished at my sudden frivolity."

"Oh, that was it, was it?"

"Yes, that was it.  Mr. Hugo Oberstein, of 13 Caulfield Gardens, had
become my objective.  I began my operations at Gloucester Road Station,
where a very helpful official walked with me along the track and
allowed me to satisfy myself not only that the back-stair windows of
Caulfield Gardens open on the line but the even more essential fact
that, owing to the intersection of one of the larger railways, the
Underground trains are frequently held motionless for some minutes at
that very spot."

"Splendid, Holmes!  You have got it!"

"So far--so far, Watson.  We advance, but the goal is afar. Well,
having seen the back of Caulfield Gardens, I visited the front and
satisfied myself that the bird was indeed flown.  It is a considerable
house, unfurnished, so far as I could judge, in the upper rooms.
Oberstein lived there with a single valet, who was probably a
confederate entirely in his confidence.  We must bear in mind that
Oberstein has gone to the Continent to dispose of his booty, but not
with any idea of flight; for he had no reason to fear a warrant, and
the idea of an amateur domiciliary visit would certainly never occur to
him.  Yet that is precisely what we are about to make."

"Could we not get a warrant and legalize it?"

"Hardly on the evidence."

"What can we hope to do?"

"We cannot tell what correspondence may be there."

"I don't like it, Holmes."

"My dear fellow, you shall keep watch in the street.  I'll do the
criminal part.  It's not a time to stick at trifles.  Think of
Mycroft's note, of the Admiralty, the Cabinet, the exalted person who
waits for news.  We are bound to go."

My answer was to rise from the table.

"You are right, Holmes.  We are bound to go."

He sprang up and shook me by the hand.

"I knew you would not shrink at the last," said he, and for a moment I
saw something in his eyes which was nearer to tenderness than I had
ever seen.  The next instant he was his masterful, practical self once
more.

"It is nearly half a mile, but there is no hurry.  Let us walk," said
he.  "Don't drop the instruments, I beg.  Your arrest as a suspicious
character would be a most unfortunate complication."

Caulfield Gardens was one of those lines of flat-faced pillared, and
porticoed houses which are so prominent a product of the middle
Victorian epoch in the West End of London.  Next door there appeared to
be a children's party, for the merry buzz of young voices and the
clatter of a piano resounded through the night.  The fog still hung
about and screened us with its friendly shade.  Holmes had lit his
lantern and flashed it upon the massive door.

"This is a serious proposition," said he.  "It is certainly bolted as
well as locked.  We would do better in the area.  There is an excellent
archway down yonder in case a too zealous policeman should intrude.
Give me a hand, Watson, and I'll do the same for you."

A minute later we were both in the area.  Hardly had we reached the
dark shadows before the step of the policeman was heard in the fog
above.  As its soft rhythm died away, Holmes set to work upon the lower
door.  I saw him stoop and strain until with a sharp crash it flew
open.  We sprang through into the dark passage, closing the area door
behind us.  Holmes led the way up the curving, uncarpeted stair.  His
little fan of yellow light shone upon a low window.

"Here we are, Watson--this must be the one."  He threw it open, and as
he did so there was a low, harsh murmur, growing steadily into a loud
roar as a train dashed past us in the darkness. Holmes swept his light
along the window-sill.  It was thickly coated with soot from the
passing engines, but the black surface was blurred and rubbed in places.

"You can see where they rested the body.  Halloa, Watson! what is this?
There can be no doubt that it is a blood mark."  He was pointing to
faint discolourations along the woodwork of the window.  "Here it is on
the stone of the stair also.  The demonstration is complete.  Let us
stay here until a train stops."

We had not long to wait.  The very next train roared from the tunnel as
before, but slowed in the open, and then, with a creaking of brakes,
pulled up immediately beneath us.  It was not four feet from the
window-ledge to the roof of the carriages. Holmes softly closed the
window.

"So far we are justified," said he.  "Wha