 Cushing resided.

It was a very long street of two-story brick houses, neat and prim,
with whitened stone steps and little groups of aproned women gossiping
at the doors.  Halfway down, Lestrade stopped and tapped at a door,
which was opened by a small servant girl.  Miss Cushing was sitting in
the front room, into which we were ushered.  She was a placid-faced
woman, with large, gentle eyes, and grizzled hair curving down over her
temples on each side.  A worked antimacassar lay upon her lap and a
basket of coloured silks stood upon a stool beside her.

"They are in the outhouse, those dreadful things," said she as Lestrade
entered.  "I wish that you would take them away altogether."

"So I shall, Miss Cushing.  I only kept them here until my friend, Mr.
Holmes, should have seen them in your presence."

"Why in my presence, sir?"

"In case he wished to ask any questions."

"What is the use of asking me questions when I tell you I know nothing
whatever about it?"

"Quite so, madam," said Holmes in his soothing way.  "I have no doubt
that you have been annoyed more than enough already over this business."

"Indeed I have, sir. I am a quiet woman and live a retired life. It is
something new for me to see my name in the papers and to find the
police in my house.  I won't have those things in here, Mr. Lestrade.
If you wish to see them you must go to the outhouse."

It was a small shed in the narrow garden which ran behind the house.
Lestrade went in and brought out a yellow cardboard box, with a piece
of brown paper and some string.  There was a bench at the end of the
path, and we all sat down while Homes examined one by one, the articles
which Lestrade had handed to him.

"The string is exceedingly interesting," he remarked, holding it up to
the light and sniffing at it.  "What do you make of this string,
Lestrade?"

"It has been tarred."

"Precisely.  It is a piece of tarred twine.  You have also, no doubt,
remarked that Miss Cushing has cut the cord with a scissors, as can be
seen by the double fray on each side.  This is of importance."

"I cannot see the importance," said Lestrade.

"The importance lies in the fact that the knot is left intact, and that
this knot is of a peculiar character."

"It is very neatly tied.  I had already made a note of that effect,"
said Lestrade complacently.

"So much for the string, then," said Holmes, smiling, "now for the box
wrapper. Brown paper, with a distinct smell of coffee. What, did you
not observe it?  I think there can be no doubt of it.  Address printed
in rather straggling characters:  'Miss S. Cushing, Cross Street,
Croydon.'  Done with a broad-pointed pen, probably a J, and with very
inferior ink.  The word 'Croydon' has been originally spelled with an
'i', which has been changed to 'y'.  The parcel was directed, then, by
a man--the printing is distinctly masculine--of limited education and
unacquainted with the town of Croydon.  So far, so good!  The box is a
yellow, half-pound honeydew box, with nothing distinctive save two
thumb marks at the left bottom corner.  It is filled with rough salt of
the quality used for preserving hides and other of the coarser
commercial purposes.  And embedded in it are these very singular
enclosures."

He took out the two ears as he spoke, and laying a board across his
knee he examined them minutely, while Lestrade and I, bending forward
on each side of him, glanced alternately at these dreadful relics and
at the thoughtful, eager face of our companion.  Finally he returned
them to the box once more and sat for a while in deep meditation.

"You have observed, of course," said he at last, "that the ears are not
a pair."

"Yes, I have noticed that.  But if this were the practical joke of some
students from the dissecting-rooms, it would be as easy for them to
send two odd ears as a pair."

"Precisely.  But this is not a practical joke."

"You are sure of it?"

"The presumption is strongly against it.  Bodies in the
dissecting-rooms are injected with preservative fluid.  These ears bear
no signs of this.  They are fresh, too.  They have been cut off with a
blunt instrument, which would hardly happen if a student had done it.
Again, carbolic or rectified spirits would be the preservatives which
would suggest themselves to the medical mind, certainly not rough salt.
I repeat that there is no practical joke here, but that we are
investigating a serious crime."

A vague thrill ran through me as I listened to my companion's words and
saw the stern gravity which had hardened his features. This brutal
preliminary seemed to shadow forth some strange and inexplicable horror
in the background. Lestrade, however, shook his head like a man who is
only half convinced.

"There are objections to the joke theory, no doubt," said he, "but
there are much stronger reasons against the other.  We know that this
woman has led a most quiet and respectable life at Penge and here for
the last twenty years.  She has hardly been away from her home for a
day during that time.  Why on earth, then, should any criminal send her
the proofs of his guilt, especially as, unless s