 as Mycroft Holmes
absolutely and indignantly declined to climb the railings, to pass in
and open the hall door.  By nine o'clock we were all seated in the
study, waiting patiently for our man.

An hour passed and yet another.  When eleven struck, the measured beat
of the great church clock seemed to sound the dirge of our hopes.
Lestrade and Mycroft were fidgeting in their seats and looking twice a
minute at their watches.  Holmes sat silent and composed, his eyelids
half shut, but every sense on the alert. He raised his head with a
sudden jerk.

"He is coming," said he.

There had been a furtive step past the door.  Now it returned. We heard
a shuffling sound outside, and then two sharp taps with the knocker.
Holmes rose, motioning us to remain seated.  The gas in the hall was a
mere point of light.  He opened the outer door, and then as a dark
figure slipped past him he closed and fastened it.  "This way!" we
heard him say, and a moment later our man stood before us.  Holmes had
followed him closely, and as the man turned with a cry of surprise and
alarm he caught him by the collar and threw him back into the room.
Before our prisoner had recovered his balance the door was shut and
Holmes standing with his back against it.  The man glared round him,
staggered, and fell senseless upon the floor.  With the shock, his
broad-brimmed hat flew from his head, his cravat slipped down from his
lips, and there were the long light beard and the soft, handsome
delicate features of Colonel Valentine Walter.

Holmes gave a whistle of surprise.

"You can write me down an ass this time, Watson," said he.  "This was
not the bird that I was looking for."

"Who is he?" asked Mycroft eagerly.

"The younger brother of the late Sir James Walter, the head of the
Submarine Department.  Yes, yes; I see the fall of the cards. He is
coming to.  I think that you had best leave his examination to me."

We had carried the prostrate body to the sofa.  Now our prisoner sat
up, looked round him with a horror-stricken face, and passed his hand
over his forehead, like one who cannot believe his own senses.

"What is this?" he asked.  "I came here to visit Mr. Oberstein."

"Everything is known, Colonel Walter," said Holmes.  "How an English
gentleman could behave in such a manner is beyond my comprehension.
But your whole correspondence and relations with Oberstein are within
our knowledge.  So also are the circumstances connected with the death
of young Cadogan West. Let me advise you to gain at least the small
credit for repentance and confession, since there are still some
details which we can only learn from your lips."

The man groaned and sank his face in his hands.  We waited, but he was
silent.

"I can assure you," said Holmes, "that every essential is already
known.  We know that you were pressed for money; that you took an
impress of the keys which your brother held; and that you entered into
a correspondence with Oberstein, who answered your letters through the
advertisement columns of the Daily Telegraph.  We are aware that you
went down to the office in the fog on Monday night, but that you were
seen and followed by young Cadogan West, who had probably some previous
reason to suspect you.  He saw your theft, but could not give the
alarm, as it was just possible that you were taking the papers to your
brother in London. Leaving all his private concerns, like the good
citizen that he was, he followed you closely in the fog and kept at
your heels until you reached this very house.  There he intervened, and
then it was, Colonel Walter, that to treason you added the more
terrible crime of murder."

"I did not!  I did not!  Before God I swear that I did not!" cried our
wretched prisoner.

"Tell us, then, how Cadogan West met his end before you laid him upon
the roof of a railway carriage."

"I will.  I swear to you that I will.  I did the rest.  I confess it.
It was just as you say.  A Stock Exchange debt had to be paid.  I
needed the money badly.  Oberstein offered me five thousand.  It was to
save myself from ruin.  But as to murder, I am as innocent as you."

"What happened, then?"

"He had his suspicions before, and he followed me as you describe.  I
never knew it until I was at the very door.  It was thick fog, and one
could not see three yards.  I had given two taps and Oberstein had come
to the door.  The young man rushed up and demanded to know what we were
about to do with the papers. Oberstein had a short life-preserver.  He
always carried it with him.  As West forced his way after us into the
house Oberstein struck him on the head.  The blow was a fatal one.  He
was dead within five minutes.  There he lay in the hall, and we were at
our wit's end what to do.  Then Oberstein had this idea about the
trains which halted under his back window.  But first he examined the
papers which I had brought.  He said that three of them were essential,
and that he must keep them.  'You cannot keep them,' said I.  'There
will be a dreadful row at Woolwich if they are not returned.'  'I must
keep them,' said he, 'for they are so technical that it is impossi