er so upset.  As to the Admiralty--it is buzzing like an
overturned bee-hive.  Have you read up the case?"

"We have just done so.  What were the technical papers?"

"Ah, there's the point!  Fortunately, it has not come out.  The press
would be furious if it did.  The papers which this wretched youth had
in his pocket were the plans of the Bruce-Partington submarine."

Mycroft Holmes spoke with a solemnity which showed his sense of the
importance of the subject.  His brother and I sat expectant.

"Surely you have heard of it?  I thought everyone had heard of it."

"Only as a name."

"Its importance can hardly be exaggerated.  It has been the most
jealously guarded of all government secrets.  You may take it from me
that naval warfare becomes impossible within the radius of a
Bruce-Partington's operation.  Two years ago a very large sum was
smuggled through the Estimates and was expended in acquiring a monopoly
of the invention.  Every effort has been made to keep the secret.  The
plans, which are exceedingly intricate, comprising some thirty separate
patents, each essential to the working of the whole, are kept in an
elaborate safe in a confidential office adjoining the arsenal, with
burglar-proof doors and windows.  Under no conceivable circumstances
were the plans to be taken from the office.  If the chief constructor
of the Navy desired to consult them, even he was forced to go to the
Woolwich office for the purpose.  And yet here we find them in the
pocket of a dead junior clerk in the heart of London.  From an official
point of view it's simply awful."

"But you have recovered them?"

"No, Sherlock, no!  That's the pinch.  We have not.  Ten papers were
taken from Woolwich.  There were seven in the pocket of Cadogan West.
The three most essential are gone--stolen, vanished.  You must drop
everything, Sherlock.  Never mind your usual petty puzzles of the
police-court.  It's a vital international problem that you have to
solve.  Why did Cadogan West take the papers, where are the missing
ones, how did he die, how came his body where it was found, how can the
evil be set right?  Find an answer to all these questions, and you will
have done good service for your country."

"Why do you not solve it yourself, Mycroft?  You can see as far as I."

"Possibly, Sherlock.  But it is a question of getting details. Give me
your details, and from an armchair I will return you an excellent
expert opinion.  But to run here and run there, to cross-question
railway guards, and lie on my face with a lens to my eye--it is not my
metier.  No, you are the one man who can clear the matter up.  If you
have a fancy to see your name in the next honours list--"

My friend smiled and shook his head.

"I play the game for the game's own sake," said he.  "But the problem
certainly presents some points of interest, and I shall be very pleased
to look into it.  Some more facts, please."

"I have jotted down the more essential ones upon this sheet of paper,
together with a few addresses which you will find of service.  The
actual official guardian of the papers is the famous government expert,
Sir James Walter, whose decorations and sub-titles fill two lines of a
book of reference.  He has grown gray in the service, is a gentleman, a
favoured guest in the most exalted houses, and, above all, a man whose
patriotism is beyond suspicion.  He is one of two who have a key of the
safe.  I may add that the papers were undoubtedly in the office during
working hours on Monday, and that Sir James left for London about three
o'clock taking his key with him.  He was at the house of Admiral
Sinclair at Barclay Square during the whole of the evening when this
incident occurred."

"Has the fact been verified?"

"Yes; his brother, Colonel Valentine Walter, has testified to his
departure from Woolwich, and Admiral Sinclair to his arrival in London;
so Sir James is no longer a direct factor in the problem."

"Who was the other man with a key?"

"The senior clerk and draughtsman, Mr. Sidney Johnson.  He is a man of
forty, married, with five children.  He is a silent, morose man, but he
has, on the whole, an excellent record in the public service.  He is
unpopular with his colleagues, but a hard worker.  According to his own
account, corroborated only by the word of his wife, he was at home the
whole of Monday evening after office hours, and his key has never left
the watch-chain upon which it hangs."

"Tell us about Cadogan West."

"He has been ten years in the service and has done good work.  He has
the reputation of being hot-headed and imperious, but a straight,
honest man.  We have nothing against him.  He was next Sidney Johnson
in the office.  His duties brought him into daily, personal contact
with the plans.  No one else had the handling of them."

"Who locked up the plans that night?"

"Mr. Sidney Johnson, the senior clerk."

"Well, it is surely perfectly clear who took them away.  They are
actually found upon the person of this junior clerk, Cadogan West.
That seems final, does it not?"

"It does, Sherlock, and yet it leaves so much unexplained.  In the
first pla