ble
in the time to make copies.' 'Then they must all go back together
to-night,' said I.  He thought for a little, and then he cried out that
he had it. 'Three I will keep,' said he.  'The others we will stuff
into the pocket of this young man.  When he is found the whole business
will assuredly be put to his account.'  I could see no other way out of
it, so we did as he suggested.  We waited half an hour at the window
before a train stopped.  It was so thick that nothing could be seen,
and we had no difficulty in lowering West's body on to the train.  That
was the end of the matter so far as I was concerned."

"And your brother?"

"He said nothing, but he had caught me once with his keys, and I think
that he suspected.  I read in his eyes that he suspected. As you know,
he never held up his head again."

There was silence in the room.  It was broken by Mycroft Holmes.

"Can you not make reparation?  It would ease your conscience, and
possibly your punishment."

"What reparation can I make?"

"Where is Oberstein with the papers?"

"I do not know."

"Did he give you no address?"

"He said that letters to the Hotel du Louvre, Paris, would eventually
reach him."

"Then reparation is still within your power," said Sherlock Holmes.

"I will do anything I can.  I owe this fellow no particular good-will.
He has been my ruin and my downfall."

"Here are paper and pen.  Sit at this desk and write to my dictation.
Direct the envelope to the address given.  That is right.  Now the
letter:

"Dear Sir:

"With regard to our transaction, you will no doubt have observed by now
that one essential detail is missing.  I have a tracing which will make
it complete.  This has involved me in extra trouble, however, and I
must ask you for a further advance of five hundred pounds.  I will not
trust it to the post, nor will I take anything but gold or notes.  I
would come to you abroad, but it would excite remark if I left the
country at present. Therefore I shall expect to meet you in the
smoking-room of the Charing Cross Hotel at noon on Saturday.  Remember
that only English notes, or gold, will be taken.

"That will do very well.  I shall be very much surprised if it does not
fetch our man."

And it did!  It is a matter of history--that secret history of a nation
which is often so much more intimate and interesting than its public
chronicles--that Oberstein, eager to complete the coup of his lifetime,
came to the lure and was safely engulfed for fifteen years in a British
prison.  In his trunk were found the invaluable Bruce-Partington plans,
which he had put up for auction in all the naval centres of Europe.

Colonel Walter died in prison towards the end of the second year of his
sentence.  As to Holmes, he returned refreshed to his monograph upon
the Polyphonic Motets of Lassus, which has since been printed for
private circulation, and is said by experts to be the last word upon
the subject.  Some weeks afterwards I learned incidentally that my
friend spent a day at Windsor, whence he returned with a remarkably
fine emerald tie-pin.  When I asked him if he had bought it, he
answered that it was a present from a certain gracious lady in whose
interests he had once been fortunate enough to carry out a small
commission.  He said no more; but I fancy that I could guess at that
lady's august name, and I have little doubt that the emerald pin will
forever recall to my friend's memory the adventure of the
Bruce-Partington plans.







F