lent dejection until the stipulated time
had passed.  He seemed to have been watching the clock as well as I,
for it was hardly six before he began to talk with the same feverish
animation as before.

"Now, Watson," said he.  "Have you any change in your pocket?"

"Yes."

"Any silver?"

"A good deal."

"How many half-crowns?"

"I have five."

"Ah, too few!  Too few!  How very unfortunate, Watson!  However, such
as they are you can put them in your watchpocket.  And all the rest of
your money in your left trouser pocket.  Thank you. It will balance you
so much better like that."

This was raving insanity.  He shuddered, and again made a sound between
a cough and a sob.

"You will now light the gas, Watson, but you will be very careful that
not for one instant shall it be more than half on.  I implore you to be
careful, Watson.  Thank you, that is excellent. No, you need not draw
the blind.  Now you will have the kindness to place some letters and
papers upon this table within my reach. Thank you.  Now some of that
litter from the mantelpiece. Excellent, Watson!  There is a sugar-tongs
there.  Kindly raise that small ivory box with its assistance.  Place
it here among the papers.  Good!  You can now go and fetch Mr.
Culverton Smith, of 13 Lower Burke Street."

To tell the truth, my desire to fetch a doctor had somewhat weakened,
for poor Holmes was so obviously delirious that it seemed dangerous to
leave him.  However, he was as eager now to consult the person named as
he had been obstinate in refusing.

"I never heard the name," said I.

"Possibly not, my good Watson.  It may surprise you to know that the
man upon earth who is best versed in this disease is not a medical man,
but a planter.  Mr. Culverton Smith is a well-known resident of
Sumatra, now visiting London.  An outbreak of the disease upon his
plantation, which was distant from medical aid, caused him to study it
himself, with some rather far-reaching consequences.  He is a very
methodical person, and I did not desire you to start before six,
because I was well aware that you would not find him in his study.  If
you could persuade him to come here and give us the benefit of his
unique experience of this disease, the investigation of which has been
his dearest hobby, I cannot doubt that he could help me."

I gave Holmes's remarks as a consecutive whole and will not attempt to
indicate how they were interrupted by gaspings for breath and those
clutchings of his hands which indicated the pain from which he was
suffering.  His appearance had changed for the worse during the few
hours that I had been with him.  Those hectic spots were more
pronounced, the eyes shone more brightly out of darker hollows, and a
cold sweat glimmered upon his brow. He still retained, however, the
jaunty gallantry of his speech. To the last gasp he would always be the
master.

"You will tell him exactly how you have left me," said he.  "You will
convey the very impression which is in your own mind--a dying man--a
dying and delirious man.  Indeed, I cannot think why the whole bed of
the ocean is not one solid mass of oysters, so prolific the creatures
seem.  Ah, I am wandering!  Strange how the brain controls the brain!
What was I saying, Watson?"

"My directions for Mr. Culverton Smith."

"Ah, yes, I remember.  My life depends upon it.  Plead with him,
Watson.  There is no good feeling between us.  His nephew, Watson--I
had suspicions of foul play and I allowed him to see it.  The boy died
horribly.  He has a grudge against me.  You will soften him, Watson.
Beg him, pray him, get him here by any means.  He can save me--only he!"

"I will bring him in a cab, if I have to carry him down to it."

"You will do nothing of the sort.  You will persuade him to come. And
then you will return in front of him.  Make any excuse so as not to
come with him.  Don't forget, Watson.  You won't fail me. You never did
fail me.  No doubt there are natural enemies which limit the increase
of the creatures.  You and I, Watson, we have done our part.  Shall the
world, then, be overrun by oysters? No, no; horrible!  You'll convey
all that is in your mind."

I left him full of the image of this magnificent intellect babbling
like a foolish child.  He had handed me the key, and with a happy
thought I took it with me lest he should lock himself in.  Mrs. Hudson
was waiting, trembling and weeping, in the passage.  Behind me as I
passed from the flat I heard Holmes's high, thin voice in some
delirious chant.  Below, as I stood whistling for a cab, a man came on
me through the fog.

"How is Mr. Holmes, sir?" he asked.

It was an old acquaintance, Inspector Morton, of Scotland Yard, dressed
in unofficial tweeds.

"He is very ill," I answered.

He looked at me in a most singular fashion.  Had it not been too
fiendish, I could have imagined that the gleam of the fanlight showed
exultation in his face.

"I heard some rumour of it," said he.

The cab had driven up, and I left him.

Lower Burke Street proved to be a line of fine houses lying in the
vague borderland between Notting Hill and Kensington.  The particular
one at whi