 but the news
reached me this morning, and I came straight back again to help in the
inquiry."

Holmes raised his eyebrows.

"Did you lose your boat through it?"

"I will take the next."

"Dear me! that is friendship indeed."

"I tell you they were relatives."

"Quite so--cousins of your mother.  Was your baggage aboard the ship?"

"Some of it, but the main part at the hotel."

"I see.  But surely this event could not have found its way into the
Plymouth morning papers."

"No, sir; I had a telegram."

"Might I ask from whom?"

A shadow passed over the gaunt face of the explorer.

"You are very inquisitive, Mr. Holmes."

"It is my business."

With an effort Dr. Sterndale recovered his ruffled composure.

"I have no objection to telling you," he said.  "It was Mr. Roundhay,
the vicar, who sent me the telegram which recalled me."

"Thank you," said Holmes.  "I may say in answer to your original
question that I have not cleared my mind entirely on the subject of
this case, but that I have every hope of reaching some conclusion.  It
would be premature to say more."

"Perhaps you would not mind telling me if your suspicions point in any
particular direction?"

"No, I can hardly answer that."

"Then I have wasted my time and need not prolong my visit."  The famous
doctor strode out of our cottage in considerable ill-humour, and within
five minutes Holmes had followed him.  I saw him no more until the
evening, when he returned with a slow step and haggard face which
assured me that he had made no great progress with his investigation.
He glanced at a telegram which awaited him and threw it into the grate.

"From the Plymouth hotel, Watson," he said.  "I learned the name of it
from the vicar, and I wired to make certain that Dr. Leon Sterndale's
account was true.  It appears that he did indeed spend last night
there, and that he has actually allowed some of his baggage to go on to
Africa, while he returned to be present at this investigation.  What do
you make of that, Watson?"

"He is deeply interested."

"Deeply interested--yes.  There is a thread here which we had not yet
grasped and which might lead us through the tangle.  Cheer up, Watson,
for I am very sure that our material has not yet all come to hand.
When it does we may soon leave our difficulties behind us."

Little did I think how soon the words of Holmes would be realized, or
how strange and sinister would be that new development which opened up
an entirely fresh line of investigation.  I was shaving at my window in
the morning when I heard the rattle of hoofs and, looking up, saw a
dog-cart coming at a gallop down the road.  It pulled up at our door,
and our friend, the vicar, sprang from it and rushed up our garden
path. Holmes was already dressed, and we hastened down to meet him.

Our visitor was so excited that he could hardly articulate, but at last
in gasps and bursts his tragic story came out of him.

"We are devil-ridden, Mr. Holmes!  My poor parish is devil-ridden!" he
cried.  "Satan himself is loose in it!  We are given over into his
hands!"  He danced about in his agitation, a ludicrous object if it
were not for his ashy face and startled eyes.  Finally he shot out his
terrible news.

"Mr. Mortimer Tregennis died during the night, and with exactly the
same symptoms as the rest of his family."

Holmes sprang to his feet, all energy in an instant.

"Can you fit us both into your dog-cart?"

"Yes, I can."

"Then, Watson, we will postpone our breakfast.  Mr. Roundhay, we are
entirely at your disposal.  Hurry--hurry, before things get
disarranged."

The lodger occupied two rooms at the vicarage, which were in an angle
by themselves, the one above the other.  Below was a large
sitting-room; above, his bedroom.  They looked out upon a croquet lawn
which came up to the windows.  We had arrived before the doctor or the
police, so that everything was absolutely undisturbed.  Let me describe
exactly the scene as we saw it upon that misty March morning.  It has
left an impression which can never be effaced from my mind.

The atmosphere of the room was of a horrible and depressing stuffiness.
The servant who had first entered had thrown up the window, or it would
have been even more intolerable.  This might partly be due to the fact
that a lamp stood flaring and smoking on the centre table.  Beside it
sat the dead man, leaning back in his chair, his thin beard projecting,
his spectacles pushed up on to his forehead, and his lean dark face
turned towards the window and twisted into the same distortion of
terror which had marked the features of his dead sister.  His limbs
were convulsed and his fingers contorted as though he had died in a
very paroxysm of fear.  He was fully clothed, though there were signs
that his dressing had been done in a hurry.  We had already learned
that his bed had been slept in, and that the tragic end had come to him
in the early morning.

One realized the red-hot energy which underlay Holmes's phlegmatic
exterior when one saw the sudden change which came over him from the
moment that he entered the fatal apartment.  In an instant he was tense
an