o boxes, that he
managed to abstract some of the devil's-foot root.  I well remember how
he plied me with questions as to the amount and the time that was
needed for its effect, but I little dreamed that he could have a
personal reason for asking.

"I thought no more of the matter until the vicar's telegram reached me
at Plymouth.  This villain had thought that I would be at sea before
the news could reach me, and that I should be lost for years in Africa.
But I returned at once.  Of course, I could not listen to the details
without feeling assured that my poison had been used.  I came round to
see you on the chance that some other explanation had suggested itself
to you.  But there could be none.  I was convinced that Mortimer
Tregennis was the murderer; that for the sake of money, and with the
idea, perhaps, that if the other members of his family were all insane
he would be the sole guardian of their joint property, he had used the
devil's-foot powder upon them, driven two of them out of their senses,
and killed his sister Brenda, the one human being whom I have ever
loved or who has ever loved me.  There was his crime; what was to be
his punishment?

"Should I appeal to the law?  Where were my proofs?  I knew that the
facts were true, but could I help to make a jury of countrymen believe
so fantastic a story?  I might or I might not. But I could not afford
to fail.  My soul cried out for revenge. I have said to you once
before, Mr. Holmes, that I have spent much of my life outside the law,
and that I have come at last to be a law to myself.  So it was even
now.  I determined that the fate which he had given to others should be
shared by himself. Either that or I would do justice upon him with my
own hand.  In all England there can be no man who sets less value upon
his own life than I do at the present moment.

"Now I have told you all.  You have yourself supplied the rest. I did,
as you say, after a restless night, set off early from my cottage.  I
foresaw the difficulty of arousing him, so I gathered some gravel from
the pile which you have mentioned, and I used it to throw up to his
window.  He came down and admitted me through the window of the
sitting-room.  I laid his offence before him. I told him that I had
come both as judge and executioner.  The wretch sank into a chair,
paralyzed at the sight of my revolver. I lit the lamp, put the powder
above it, and stood outside the window, ready to carry out my threat to
shoot him should he try to leave the room.  In five minutes he died.
My God! how he died!  But my heart was flint, for he endured nothing
which my innocent darling had not felt before him.  There is my story,
Mr. Holmes.  Perhaps, if you loved a woman, you would have done as much
yourself.  At any rate, I am in your hands.  You can take what steps
you like.  As I have already said, there is no man living who can fear
death less than I do."

Holmes sat for some little time in silence.

"What were your plans?" he asked at last.

"I had intended to bury myself in central Africa.  My work there is but
half finished."

"Go and do the other half," said Holmes.  "I, at least, am not prepared
to prevent you."

Dr. Sterndale raised his giant figure, bowed gravely, and walked from
the arbour.  Holmes lit his pipe and handed me his pouch.

"Some fumes which are not poisonous would be a welcome change," said
he.  "I think you must agree, Watson, that it is not a case in which we
are called upon to interfere.  Our investigation has been independent,
and our action shall be so also.  You would not denounce the man?"

"Certainly not," I answered.

"I have never loved, Watson, but if I did and if the woman I loved had
met such an end, I might act even as our lawless lion-hunter has done.
Who knows?  Well, Watson, I will not offend your intelligence by
explaining what is obvious.  The gravel upon the window-sill was, of
course, the starting-point of my research.  It was unlike anything in
the vicarage garden.  Only when my attention had been drawn to Dr.
Sterndale and his cottage did I find its counterpart.  The lamp shining
in broad daylight and the remains of powder upon the shield were
successive links in a fairly obvious chain.  And now, my dear Watson, I
think we may dismiss the matter from our mind and go back with a clear
conscience to the study of those Chaldean roots which are surely to be
traced in the Cornish branch of the great Celtic speech."







F