sions."

"I presume that this Jim Browner, the steward of a Liverpool boat, is
the man whom you suspect?"

"Oh! it is more than a suspicion."

"And yet I cannot see anything save very vague indications."

"On the contrary, to my mind nothing could be more clear.  Let me run
over the principal steps.  We approached the case, you remember, with
an absolutely blank mind, which is always an advantage.  We had formed
no theories.  We were simply there to observe and to draw inferences
from our observations.  What did we see first?  A very placid and
respectable lady, who seemed quite innocent of any secret, and a
portrait which showed me that she had two younger sisters.  It
instantly flashed across my mind that the box might have been meant for
one of these.  I set the idea aside as one which could be disproved or
confirmed at our leisure.  Then we went to the garden, as you remember,
and we saw the very singular contents of the little yellow box.

"The string was of the quality which is used by sail-makers aboard
ship, and at once a whiff of the sea was perceptible in our
investigation.  When I observed that the knot was one which is popular
with sailors, that the parcel had been posted at a port, and that the
male ear was pierced for an earring which is so much more common among
sailors than landsmen, I was quite certain that all the actors in the
tragedy were to be found among our seafaring classes.

"When I came to examine the address of the packet I observed that it
was to Miss S. Cushing.  Now, the oldest sister would, of course, be
Miss Cushing, and although her initial was 'S' it might belong to one
of the others as well.  In that case we should have to commence our
investigation from a fresh basis altogether.  I therefore went into the
house with the intention of clearing up this point.  I was about to
assure Miss Cushing that I was convinced that a mistake had been made
when you may remember that I came suddenly to a stop.  The fact was
that I had just seen something which filled me with surprise and at the
same time narrowed the field of our inquiry immensely.

"As a medical man, you are aware, Watson, that there is no part of the
body which varies so much as the human ear.  Each ear is as a rule
quite distinctive and differs from all other ones.  In last year's
Anthropological Journal you will find two short monographs from my pen
upon the subject.  I had, therefore, examined the ears in the box with
the eyes of an expert and had carefully noted their anatomical
peculiarities.  Imagine my surprise, then, when on looking at Miss
Cushing I perceived that her ear corresponded exactly with the female
ear which I had just inspected.  The matter was entirely beyond
coincidence.  There was the same shortening of the pinna, the same
broad curve of the upper lobe, the same convolution of the inner
cartilage.  In all essentials it was the same ear.

"In the first place, her sister's name was Sarah, and her address had
until recently been the same, so that it was quite obvious how the
mistake had occurred and for whom the packet was meant. Then we heard
of this steward, married to the third sister, and learned that he had
at one time been so intimate with Miss Sarah that she had actually gone
up to Liverpool to be near the Browners, but a quarrel had afterwards
divided them.  This quarrel had put a stop to all communications for
some months, so that if Browner had occasion to address a packet to
Miss Sarah, he would undoubtedly have done so to her old address.

"And now the matter had begun to straighten itself out wonderfully.  We
had learned of the existence of this steward, an impulsive man, of
strong passions--you remember that he threw up what must have been a
very superior berth in order to be nearer to his wife--subject, too, to
occasional fits of hard drinking. We had reason to believe that his
wife had been murdered, and that a man--presumably a seafaring man--had
been murdered at the same time.  Jealousy, of course, at once suggests
itself as the motive for the crime.  And why should these proofs of the
deed be sent to Miss Sarah Cushing?  Probably because during her
residence in Liverpool she had some hand in bringing about the events
which led to the tragedy.  You will observe that this line of boats
call at Belfast, Dublin, and Waterford; so that, presuming that Browner
had committed the deed and had embarked at once upon his steamer, the
May Day, Belfast would be the first place at which he could post his
terrible packet.

"A second solution was at this stage obviously possible, and although I
thought it exceedingly unlikely, I was determined to elucidate it
before going further.  An unsuccessful lover might have killed Mr. and
Mrs. Browner, and the male ear might have belonged to the husband.
There were many grave objections to this theory, but it was
conceivable.  I therefore sent off a telegram to my friend Algar, of
the Liverpool force, and asked him to find out if Mrs. Browner were at
home, and if Browner had departed in the May Day.  Then we went on to
Wallington to visit Miss Sarah.

"I was curious, in the 