d alert, his eyes shining, his face set, his limbs quivering with
eager activity.  He was out on the lawn, in through the window, round
the room, and up into the bedroom, for all the world like a dashing
foxhound drawing a cover.  In the bedroom he made a rapid cast around
and ended by throwing open the window, which appeared to give him some
fresh cause for excitement, for he leaned out of it with loud
ejaculations of interest and delight.  Then he rushed down the stair,
out through the open window, threw himself upon his face on the lawn,
sprang up and into the room once more, all with the energy of the
hunter who is at the very heels of his quarry.  The lamp, which was an
ordinary standard, he examined with minute care, making certain
measurements upon its bowl.  He carefully scrutinized with his lens the
talc shield which covered the top of the chimney and scraped off some
ashes which adhered to its upper surface, putting some of them into an
envelope, which he placed in his pocketbook.  Finally, just as the
doctor and the official police put in an appearance, he beckoned to the
vicar and we all three went out upon the lawn.

"I am glad to say that my investigation has not been entirely barren,"
he remarked.  "I cannot remain to discuss the matter with the police,
but I should be exceedingly obliged, Mr. Roundhay, if you would give
the inspector my compliments and direct his attention to the bedroom
window and to the sitting-room lamp.  Each is suggestive, and together
they are almost conclusive.  If the police would desire further
information I shall be happy to see any of them at the cottage.  And
now, Watson, I think that, perhaps, we shall be better employed
elsewhere."

It may be that the police resented the intrusion of an amateur, or that
they imagined themselves to be upon some hopeful line of investigation;
but it is certain that we heard nothing from them for the next two
days.  During this time Holmes spent some of his time smoking and
dreaming in the cottage; but a greater portion in country walks which
he undertook alone, returning after many hours without remark as to
where he had been.  One experiment served to show me the line of his
investigation.  He had bought a lamp which was the duplicate of the one
which had burned in the room of Mortimer Tregennis on the morning of
the tragedy.  This he filled with the same oil as that used at the
vicarage, and he carefully timed the period which it would take to be
exhausted. Another experiment which he made was of a more unpleasant
nature, and one which I am not likely ever to forget.

"You will remember, Watson," he remarked one afternoon, "that there is
a single common point of resemblance in the varying reports which have
reached us.  This concerns the effect of the atmosphere of the room in
each case upon those who had first entered it.  You will recollect that
Mortimer Tregennis, in describing the episode of his last visit to his
brother's house, remarked that the doctor on entering the room fell
into a chair? You had forgotten?  Well I can answer for it that it was
so. Now, you will remember also that Mrs. Porter, the housekeeper, told
us that she herself fainted upon entering the room and had afterwards
opened the window.  In the second case--that of Mortimer Tregennis
himself--you cannot have forgotten the horrible stuffiness of the room
when we arrived, though the servant had thrown open the window.  That
servant, I found upon inquiry, was so ill that she had gone to her bed.
You will admit, Watson, that these facts are very suggestive.  In each
case there is evidence of a poisonous atmosphere.  In each case, also,
there is combustion going on in the room--in the one case a fire, in
the other a lamp.  The fire was needed, but the lamp was lit--as a
comparison of the oil consumed will show--long after it was broad
daylight.  Why?  Surely because there is some connection between three
things--the burning, the stuffy atmosphere, and, finally, the madness
or death of those unfortunate people.  That is clear, is it not?"

"It would appear so."

"At least we may accept it as a working hypothesis.  We will suppose,
then, that something was burned in each case which produced an
atmosphere causing strange toxic effects.  Very good. In the first
instance--that of the Tregennis family--this substance was placed in
the fire.  Now the window was shut, but the fire would naturally carry
fumes to some extent up the chimney.  Hence one would expect the
effects of the poison to be less than in the second case, where there
was less escape for the vapour.  The result seems to indicate that it
was so, since in the first case only the woman, who had presumably the
more sensitive organism, was killed, the others exhibiting that
temporary or permanent lunacy which is evidently the first effect of
the drug.  In the second case the result was complete.  The facts,
therefore, seem to bear out the theory of a poison which worked by
combustion.

"With this train of reasoning in my head I naturally looked about in
Mortimer Tregennis's room to find some remains of this substance.  Th