t do you think of it, Watson?"

"A masterpiece.  You have never risen to a greater height."

"I cannot agree with you there.  From the moment that I conceived the
idea of the body being upon the roof, which surely was not a very
abstruse one, all the rest was inevitable.  If it were not for the
grave interests involved the affair up to this point would be
insignificant.  Our difficulties are still before us. But perhaps we
may find something here which may help us."

We had ascended the kitchen stair and entered the suite of rooms upon
the first floor.  One was a dining-room, severely furnished and
containing nothing of interest.  A second was a bedroom, which also
drew blank.  The remaining room appeared more promising, and my
companion settled down to a systematic examination.  It was littered
with books and papers, and was evidently used as a study.  Swiftly and
methodically Holmes turned over the contents of drawer after drawer and
cupboard after cupboard, but no gleam of success came to brighten his
austere face.  At the end of an hour he was no further than when he
started.

"The cunning dog has covered his tracks," said he.  "He has left
nothing to incriminate him.  His dangerous correspondence has been
destroyed or removed.  This is our last chance."

It was a small tin cash-box which stood upon the writing-desk. Holmes
pried it open with his chisel.  Several rolls of paper were within,
covered with figures and calculations, without any note to show to what
they referred.  The recurring words, "water pressure" and "pressure to
the square inch" suggested some possible relation to a submarine.
Holmes tossed them all impatiently aside.  There only remained an
envelope with some small newspaper slips inside it.  He shook them out
on the table, and at once I saw by his eager face that his hopes had
been raised.

"What's this, Watson?  Eh?  What's this?  Record of a series of
messages in the advertisements of a paper.  Daily Telegraph agony
column by the print and paper.  Right-hand top corner of a page. No
dates--but messages arrange themselves.  This must be the first:

"Hoped to hear sooner.  Terms agreed to.  Write fully to address given
on card.

"Pierrot.

"Next comes:

"Too complex for description.  Must have full report, Stuff awaits you
when goods delivered.

"Pierrot.

"Then comes:

"Matter presses.  Must withdraw offer unless contract completed. Make
appointment by letter. Will confirm by advertisement.

"Pierrot.

"Finally:

"Monday night after nine.  Two taps.  Only ourselves.  Do not be so
suspicious.  Payment in hard cash when goods delivered.

"Pierrot.

"A fairly complete record, Watson!  If we could only get at the man at
the other end!"  He sat lost in thought, tapping his fingers on the
table.  Finally he sprang to his feet.

"Well, perhaps it won't be so difficult, after all.  There is nothing
more to be done here, Watson.  I think we might drive round to the
offices of the Daily Telegraph, and so bring a good day's work to a
conclusion."


Mycroft Holmes and Lestrade had come round by appointment after
breakfast next day and Sherlock Holmes had recounted to them our
proceedings of the day before.  The professional shook his head over
our confessed burglary.

"We can't do these things in the force, Mr. Holmes," said he. "No
wonder you get results that are beyond us.  But some of these days
you'll go too far, and you'll find yourself and your friend in trouble."

"For England, home and beauty--eh, Watson?  Martyrs on the altar of our
country.  But what do you think of it, Mycroft?"

"Excellent, Sherlock!  Admirable!  But what use will you make of it?"

Holmes picked up the Daily Telegraph which lay upon the table.

"Have you seen Pierrot's advertisement to-day?"

"What?  Another one?"

"Yes, here it is:

"To-night.  Same hour.  Same place.  Two taps.  Most vitally important.
Your own safety at stake.

"Pierrot.

"By George!" cried Lestrade.  "If he answers that we've got him!"

"That was my idea when I put it in.  I think if you could both make it
convenient to come with us about eight o'clock to Caulfield Gardens we
might possibly get a little nearer to a solution."

One of the most remarkable characteristics of Sherlock Holmes was his
power of throwing his brain out of action and switching all his
thoughts on to lighter things whenever he had convinced himself that he
could no longer work to advantage.  I remember that during the whole of
that memorable day he lost himself in a monograph which he had
undertaken upon the Polyphonic Motets of Lassus.  For my own part I had
none of this power of detachment, and the day, in consequence, appeared
to be interminable.  The great national importance of the issue, the
suspense in high quarters, the direct nature of the experiment which we
were trying--all combined to work upon my nerve.  It was a relief to me
when at last, after a light dinner, we set out upon our expedition.
Lestrade and Mycroft met us by appointment at the outside of Gloucester
Road Station.  The area door of Oberstein's house had been left open
the night before, and it was necessary for me,