 as day was breaking, you filled your pocket with some reddish
gravel that was lying heaped beside your gate."

Sterndale gave a violent start and looked at Holmes in amazement.

"You then walked swiftly for the mile which separated you from the
vicarage.  You were wearing, I may remark, the same pair of ribbed
tennis shoes which are at the present moment upon your feet.  At the
vicarage you passed through the orchard and the side hedge, coming out
under the window of the lodger Tregennis. It was now daylight, but the
household was not yet stirring.  You drew some of the gravel from your
pocket, and you threw it up at the window above you."

Sterndale sprang to his feet.

"I believe that you are the devil himself!" he cried.

Holmes smiled at the compliment.  "It took two, or possibly three,
handfuls before the lodger came to the window.  You beckoned him to
come down.  He dressed hurriedly and descended to his sitting-room.
You entered by the window.  There was an interview--a short one--during
which you walked up and down the room.  Then you passed out and closed
the window, standing on the lawn outside smoking a cigar and watching
what occurred. Finally, after the death of Tregennis, you withdrew as
you had come.  Now, Dr. Sterndale, how do you justify such conduct, and
what were the motives for your actions?  If you prevaricate or trifle
with me, I give you my assurance that the matter will pass out of my
hands forever."

Our visitor's face had turned ashen gray as he listened to the words of
his accuser.  Now he sat for some time in thought with his face sunk in
his hands.  Then with a sudden impulsive gesture he plucked a
photograph from his breast-pocket and threw it on the rustic table
before us.

"That is why I have done it," said he.

It showed the bust and face of a very beautiful woman.  Holmes stooped
over it.

"Brenda Tregennis," said he.

"Yes, Brenda Tregennis," repeated our visitor.  "For years I have loved
her.  For years she has loved me.  There is the secret of that Cornish
seclusion which people have marvelled at.  It has brought me close to
the one thing on earth that was dear to me. I could not marry her, for
I have a wife who has left me for years and yet whom, by the deplorable
laws of England, I could not divorce.  For years Brenda waited.  For
years I waited.  And this is what we have waited for."  A terrible sob
shook his great frame, and he clutched his throat under his brindled
beard.  Then with an effort he mastered himself and spoke on:

"The vicar knew.  He was in our confidence.  He would tell you that she
was an angel upon earth.  That was why he telegraphed to me and I
returned.  What was my baggage or Africa to me when I learned that such
a fate had come upon my darling?  There you have the missing clue to my
action, Mr. Holmes."

"Proceed," said my friend.

Dr. Sterndale drew from his pocket a paper packet and laid it upon the
table.  On the outside was written "Radix pedis diaboli" with a red
poison label beneath it.  He pushed it towards me.  "I understand that
you are a doctor, sir.  Have you ever heard of this preparation?"

"Devil's-foot root!  No, I have never heard of it."

"It is no reflection upon your professional knowledge," said he, "for I
believe that, save for one sample in a laboratory at Buda, there is no
other specimen in Europe.  It has not yet found its way either into the
pharmacopoeia or into the literature of toxicology.  The root is shaped
like a foot, half human, half goatlike; hence the fanciful name given
by a botanical missionary.  It is used as an ordeal poison by the
medicine-men in certain districts of West Africa and is kept as a
secret among them.  This particular specimen I obtained under very
extraordinary circumstances in the Ubangi country."  He opened the
paper as he spoke and disclosed a heap of reddish-brown, snuff-like
powder.

"Well, sir?" asked Holmes sternly.

"I am about to tell you, Mr. Holmes, all that actually occurred, for
you already know so much that it is clearly to my interest that you
should know all.  I have already explained the relationship in which I
stood to the Tregennis family. For the sake of the sister I was
friendly with the brothers.  There was a family quarrel about money
which estranged this man Mortimer, but it was supposed to be made up,
and I afterwards met him as I did the others.  He was a sly, subtle,
scheming man, and several things arose which gave me a suspicion of
him, but I had no cause for any positive quarrel.

"One day, only a couple of weeks ago, he came down to my cottage and I
showed him some of my African curiosities.  Among other things I
exhibited this powder, and I told him of its strange properties, how it
stimulates those brain centres which control the emotion of fear, and
how either madness or death is the fate of the unhappy native who is
subjected to the ordeal by the priest of his tribe.  I told him also
how powerless European science would be to detect it.  How he took it I
cannot say, for I never left the room, but there is no doubt that it
was then, while I was opening cabinets and stooping t