ung Cadogan West; but the indications at the window would lend
themselves to a more favourable hypothesis.  Let us suppose, for
example, that he had been approached by some foreign agent.  It might
have been done under such pledges as would have prevented him from
speaking of it, and yet would have affected his thoughts in the
direction indicated by his remarks to his fiancee.  Very good.  We will
now suppose that as he went to the theatre with the young lady he
suddenly, in the fog, caught a glimpse of this same agent going in the
direction of the office. He was an impetuous man, quick in his
decisions.  Everything gave way to his duty.  He followed the man,
reached the window, saw the abstraction of the documents, and pursued
the thief.  In this way we get over the objection that no one would
take originals when he could make copies.  This outsider had to take
originals. So far it holds together."

"What is the next step?"

"Then we come into difficulties.  One would imagine that under such
circumstances the first act of young Cadogan West would be to seize the
villain and raise the alarm.  Why did he not do so? Could it have been
an official superior who took the papers? That would explain West's
conduct.  Or could the chief have given West the slip in the fog, and
West started at once to London to head him off from his own rooms,
presuming that he knew where the rooms were?  The call must have been
very pressing, since he left his girl standing in the fog and made no
effort to communicate with her.  Our scent runs cold here, and there is
a vast gap between either hypothesis and the laying of West's body,
with seven papers in his pocket, on the roof of a Metropolitan train.
My instinct now is to work from the other end.  If Mycroft has given us
the list of addresses we may be able to pick our man and follow two
tracks instead of one."

Surely enough, a note awaited us at Baker Street.  A government
messenger had brought it post-haste.  Holmes glanced at it and threw it
over to me.

There are numerous small fry, but few who would handle so big an
affair.  The only men worth considering are Adolph Mayer, of 13 Great
George Street, Westminster; Louis La Rothiere, of Campden Mansions,
Notting Hill; and Hugo Oberstein, 13 Caulfield Gardens, Kensington.
The latter was known to be in town on Monday and is now reported as
having left.  Glad to hear you have seen some light.  The Cabinet
awaits your final report with the utmost anxiety.  Urgent
representations have arrived from the very highest quarter.  The whole
force of the State is at your back if you should need it.

Mycroft.

"I'm afraid," said Holmes, smiling, "that all the queen's horses and
all the queen's men cannot avail in this matter."  He had spread out
his big map of London and leaned eagerly over it. "Well, well," said he
presently with an exclamation of satisfaction, "things are turning a
little in our direction at last.  Why, Watson, I do honestly believe
that we are going to pull it off, after all."  He slapped me on the
shoulder with a sudden burst of hilarity.  "I am going out now.  It is
only a reconnaissance.  I will do nothing serious without my trusted
comrade and biographer at my elbow.  Do you stay here, and the odds are
that you will see me again in an hour or two.  If time hangs heavy get
foolscap and a pen, and begin your narrative of how we saved the State."

I felt some reflection of his elation in my own mind, for I knew well
that he would not depart so far from his usual austerity of demeanour
unless there was good cause for exultation.  All the long November
evening I waited, filled with impatience for his return.  At last,
shortly after nine o'clock, there arrived a messenger with a note:

Am dining at Goldini's Restaurant, Gloucester Road, Kensington. Please
come at once and join me there.  Bring with you a jemmy, a dark
lantern, a chisel, and a revolver.

S.H.

It was a nice equipment for a respectable citizen to carry through the
dim, fog-draped streets.  I stowed them all discreetly away in my
overcoat and drove straight to the address given.  There sat my friend
at a little round table near the door of the garish Italian restaurant.

"Have you had something to eat?  Then join me in a coffee and curacao.
Try one of the proprietor's cigars.  They are less poisonous than one
would expect.  Have you the tools?"

"They are here, in my overcoat."

"Excellent.  Let me give you a short sketch of what I have done, with
some indication of what we are about to do.  Now it must be evident to
you, Watson, that this young man's body was PLACED on the roof of the
train.  That was clear from the instant that I determined the fact that
it was from the roof, and not from a carriage, that he had fallen."

"Could it not have been dropped from a bridge?"

"I should say it was impossible.  If you examine the roofs you will
find that they are slightly rounded, and there is no railing round
them.  Therefore, we can say for certain that young Cadogan West was
placed on it."

"How could he be placed there?"

"That was the question which we had to answer.  There is o