ities of our socially developed lives are
as natural to us as our smooth white skins, once "naturally" brown and
shaggy.

In all fair thinking, speaking, and writing, we should decide clearly
upon our meaning, and see that it would be very unnatural for modern
women to behave as was natural to primitive women.

The main duty remains the same,--to benefit the child. Methods and
materials are open to choice and change. Motherhood is as open to
criticism as any other human labour or animal function. Free study,
honest criticism and suggestion, conscientious experiment in new
lines,--by these we make progress. Why not apply study, criticism,
suggestion, and experiment to motherhood, and make some progress
there?

"Progress in motherhood" is a strange phrase to most of us. We would
as soon speak of progress in digestion.

That shows how we persist in confounding the physical functions of
reproduction with the elaborate processes that follow; and yet we do
not apply our scornful term of "unnatural mother" to the weak,
unhealthy woman who cannot compete with a cow in this stage of
motherhood. We should think fairly one way or the other. Success in
the physical functions of maternity we shall do well to keep up to a
level with the performance of the "lower animals." The ensuing
processes are the ones open to progress.

No bottle is as good as the breast. "You cannot improve on nature!"
But you can improve in methods of clothing, feeding in later years,
house and school building, teaching, and every other distinctly human
process.

If the human mother does not compare favourably with other animals in
the physical processes of reproduction, she is therein "unnatural." If
she does not keep up with the opportunities of her race and time in
all the ensuing care of the child, she is therein unnatural. Such care
and culture as was natural to give a cave-baby would be unnatural
to-day. Is not the average mother of to-day too prone to content
herself with a very low-grade performance of a modern mother's
duties, on the plea that her methods are "natural,"--namely,
primitive?

The grade of "care" given by the mother of to-day is too often exactly
that of the mother of many thousand years ago. We depend almost
altogether on what is known as "the maternal instinct," which is a
"natural instinct," to be sure, just as it is a natural instinct for
the male to fight. The right education of a child to-day requires more
than instinct to produce the best results. Because we have not used
the helpful influences of association, study, and experience in this
most important labour of life, we keep our progress as a living
species far below the level of our progress in material improvements.

When anything is said of improving the human stock, we instantly think
of the methods of breeders of cattle, and are at once convinced of the
undesirability and impossibility of applying any such means to
humanity.

But there remain open to us two immense avenues of improvement, both
free to mothers. One is the mother's modifying influence upon the
race through selection,--that duty of wise choice of a superior father
for her children, which is "natural" enough to the lower animals, but
which we agree to ignore in the bringing up of our young women.
Careful and conscientious training to this end would have a great
effect upon the race.

This does not mean the self-conscious forcing of a young heart to
marry a "superior" man without the blessed leading of true love; but
such open knowledge of what constituted an inferior or positively
injurious man as would lower the likelihood of nice girls loving the
undesirables.

The other and far more practical road of racial advance is in
improving the environment of our young children, both materially and
psychically, by the intelligent co-ordinate action of mothers. If we
improve the individual as far as possible, it is better not to meddle
too much with the subtle forces which lead to mating. These processes
are not cerebral, and ought not to be made self-conscious. But
educational processes are conscious, and should be studied.

The "natural" mother gives no thought to her approaching duties during
youth. The animals do not, the savages do not, and our charming young
girls do not. Is it not time for us to show a generation of mothers
sufficiently "unnatural" to give honest thought and study to the great
duty which lies before them? Clear-headed, intelligent girls, as yet
unhampered by the blind brute instinct of maternal passion, might be
able to plan together for the good of the child, as they never would
be able to plan separately for the good of their own individual
children.

A year or two of thorough study and practice in the arts and sciences
of child-culture would soon convince the girl as to whether she was
adapted to be an educator of little children or merely a mother. I say
"merely a mother" in this rather derogatory way, alluding to the
process of bearing young and perhaps suckling them. This is an
essential physical function, common to all the higher animals, and
usually fulfilled by them much better than by us. 