. Daily chamber work and dusting, etc., one and one-half hours
per day. Weekly cleaning for house of nine rooms, with halls, stairs,
closets, porches, steps, walks, etc., sweeping, dusting, washing
windows, mopping, scouring, etc., averaging two hours per day. Door
service, waiting on tradesmen, and extras one-half hour per day. Total
ten hours per day."

"That sounds well. Does it take that much time every day?"

"Yes, indeed! It would take me twenty!" she answered. "You know the week
I was here alone I never did half she does. Of course I had Baby, but
then I didn't do the things. I guess when it doesn't take so long they
just don't do what ought to be done. For she is quick, awfully quick
about her work. And she's thorough. I suppose it ought to be done that
way--but I never had one before."

"She keeps mighty fresh and bright-looking after these herculean
labors."

"Yes, but then she rests! Her ten hours are from six-thirty a.m.,
when she goes into the kitchen as regularly as a cuckoo clock, to
eight-thirty p.m. when she is all through and her kitchen looks like
a--well it's as clean and orderly as if no one was ever in it."

"Ten hours--that's fourteen."

"I know it, but she takes out four. She claims time to eat her meals."

"Preposterous!"

"Half an hour apiece, and half an hour in the morning to rest--and two
in the afternoon. Anyway she is out, two hours every afternoon, riding
in the electric cars!"

"That don't look like a very hard job. Her day laborer doesn't get two
hours off every afternoon to take excursions into the country!"

"No, I know that, but he doesn't begin so early, nor stop so late. She
does her square ten hours work, and I suppose one has a right to time
off."

"You seem dubious about that, my dear."

"Yes, that's just where it's awkward. I'm used to girls being in all the
time, excepting their day out. You see I can't leave baby, nor always
take him--and it interferes with my freedom afternoons."

"Well--can't you arrange with her somehow?"

"See if you can. She says she will only give ten hours of time for a
dollar and a half a day--tisn't but fifteen cents an hour--I have to
pay a woman twenty that comes in. And if she is to give up her chance
of sunlight and fresh air she wants me to pay her extra--by the hour. Or
she says, if I prefer, she would take four hours every other day--and so
be at home half the time. I said it was difficult to arrange--with baby,
and she was very sympathetic and nice, but she won't alter her plans."

"Let her go, and get a less exacting servant."

"But--she does her work so well! And it saves a lot, really. She knows
all about marketing and things, and plans the meals so as to have things
lap, and it's a comfort to have her in the house and feel so safe and
sure everything will be done right."

"Well, it's your province, my dear. I don't profess to advise. But I
assure you I appreciate the table, and the cleanness of everything, and
the rested look in your eyes, dear girl!"

She slipped her hand into his affectionately. "It does make a
difference," she said. "I _could_ get a girl for $20.00 and save nearly
$2.60 a week--but you know what they are!"

"I do indeed," he admitted fervently. "It's worth the money to have this
thing done so well. I think she's right about the wages. Better keep
her."

"O--she'll only agree to stay six months even at this rate!"

"Well--keep her six months and be thankful. I thought she was too good
to last!"

They looked over the offered contract again. It closed with:

"This agreement to hold for six months from date if mutually
satisfactory. In case of disagreement two weeks' notice is to be given
on either side, or two weeks' wages if preferred by the employer." It
was dated, and signed "Miss D. C. Bell."

And with inward amusement and great display of penmanship they added
"Mrs. Isabel J. Porne," and the contract was made.




CHAPTER VI. THE CYNOSURE.


    It's a singular thing that the commonest place
     Is the hardest to properly fill;
    That the labor imposed on a full half the race
     Is so seldom performed with good will--
     To say nothing of knowledge or skill!

    What we ask of all women, we stare at in one,
     And tribute of wonderment bring;
    If this task of the million is once fitly done
     We all hold our hands up and sing!
     It's really a singular thing!


Isabel Porne was a cautious woman, and made no acclaim over her new
acquisition until its value was proven. Her husband also bided his
time; and when congratulated on his improved appearance and air of
contentment, merely vouchsafed that his wife had a new girl who could
cook.

To himself he boasted that he had a new wife who could love--so cheerful
and gay grew Mrs. Porne in the changed atmosphere of her home.

"It is remarkable, Edgar," she said, dilating repeatedly on the peculiar
quality of their good fortune. "It's not only good cooking, and good
waiting, and a clean house--cleaner than I ever saw one before; and it's
not only the quietness, and regularity and economy--why the bills have
gone down more than a third!"

"Yes--even I noticed that