as awaited by her in a state of suppressed excitement.

To have music and dancing--"with refreshments"--twice a week--in her
own house--this seemed to her like a career of furious dissipation.

Vivian, though with a subtle sense of withdrawal from a too general
intimacy, was inwardly rather pleased; and Susie bubbled over with
delight.

"Oh what fun!" she cried. "I never had enough dancing! I don't believe
anybody has!"

"We don't belong to the Class, you know," Vivian reminded her.

"Oh yes! Miss Peeder says we must _all_ come--that she would feel _very_
badly if we didn't; and the boarders have all joined--to a man!"

Everyone seemed pleased except Mrs. Jeaune. Dancing she considered
immoral; music, almost as much so--and Miss Elder trembled lest she
lose her. But the offer of extra payments for herself and son on these
two nights each week proved sufficient to quell her scruples.

Theophile doubled up the tables, set chairs around the walls, waxed the
floor, and was then sent to bed and locked in by his anxious mother.

She labored, during the earlier hours of the evening, in the
preparation of sandwiches and coffee, cake and lemonade--which viands
were later shoved through the slide by the austere cook, and
distributed as from a counter by Miss Peeder's assistant. Mrs. Jeaune
would come no nearer, but peered darkly upon them through the
peep-hole in the swinging door.

It was a very large room, due to the time when many "mealers" had been
accommodated. There were windows on each side, windows possessing the
unusual merit of opening from the top; wide double doors made the big
front hall a sort of anteroom, and the stairs and piazza furnished
opportunities for occasional couples who felt the wish for retirement.
In the right-angled passages, long hat-racks on either side were hung
with "Derbies," "Kossuths" and "Stetsons," and the ladies took off
their wraps, and added finishing touches to their toilettes in Miss
Elder's room.

The house was full of stir and bustle, of pretty dresses, of giggles
and whispers, and the subdued exchange of comments among the
gentlemen. The men predominated, so that there was no lack of partners
for any of the ladies.

Miss Orella accepted her new position with a half-terrified enjoyment.
Not in many years had she found herself so in demand. Her always neat
and appropriate costume had blossomed suddenly for the occasion; her
hair, arranged by the affectionate and admiring Susie, seemed softer
and more voluminous. Her eyes grew brilliant, and the delicate color
in her face warmed and deepened.

Miss Peeder had installed a pianola to cover emergencies, but on this
opening evening she had both piano and violin--good, lively,
sole-stirring music. Everyone was on the floor, save a few gentlemen
who evidently wished they were.

Sue danced with the gaiety and lightness of a kitten among wind-blown
leaves, Vivian with gliding grace, smooth and harmonious, Miss Orella
with skill and evident enjoyment, though still conscientious in every
accurate step.

Presently Mrs. Pettigrew appeared, sedately glorious in black silk,
jet-beaded, and with much fine old lace. She bore in front of her a
small wicker rocking chair, and headed for a corner near the door. Her
burden was promptly taken from her by one of the latest comers, a tall
person with a most devoted manner.

"Allow _me_, ma'am," he said, and placed the little chair at the point
she indicated. "No lady ought to rustle for rockin' chairs with so
many gentlemen present."

He was a man of somewhat advanced age, but his hair was still more
black than white and had a curly, wiggish effect save as its
indigenous character was proven by three small bare patches of a
conspicuous nature.

He bowed so low before her that she could not help observing these
distinctions, and then answered her startled look before she had time
to question him.

"Yes'm," he explained, passing his hand over head; "scalped three
several times and left for dead. But I'm here yet. Mr. Elmer Skee, at
your service."

"I thought when an Indian scalped you there wasn't enough hair left to
make Greeley whiskers," said Grandma, rising to the occasion.

"Oh, no, ma'am, they ain't so efficacious as all that--not in these
parts. I don't know what the ancient Mohawks may have done, but the
Apaches only want a patch--smaller to carry and just as good to show
off. They're collectors, you know--like a phil-e-a-to-lol-o-gist!"

"Skee, did you say?" pursued the old lady, regarding him with interest
and convinced that there was something wrong with the name of that
species of collector.

"Yes'm. Skee--Elmer Skee. No'm, _not_ pronounced 'she.' Do I look like
it?"

Mr. Skee was an interesting relic of that stormy past of the once Wild
West which has left so few surviving. He had crossed the plains as a
child, he told her, in the days of the prairie schooner, had then and
there lost his parents and his first bit of scalp, was picked up alive
by a party of "movers," and had grown up in a playground of sixteen
states and territories.

Grandma gazed upon him fascinated. "I judge you might be interesting
to