
  Work, the, of parenthood, 37.
      during motherhood, 271.
      the human being who does not, contemptible, 275.


  Young, advantage of the, over the old, 158.
      better education of the, an imperative need, 253.
      ambition of the, a force to lift mankind, 23.
      respect due to the, 172.

  Youth, the foolishness of, due to our training, 21.
      the fountain of human progress, 21.


  Zend-Avesta, the, 114.




    PRINTED BY MORRISON AND GIBB LIMITED, EDINBURGH


       *       *       *       *       *


              THE BOOKS OF
        CHARLOTTE PERKINS STETSON

           (Mrs. G. H. GILMAN)




    WOMEN AND ECONOMICS

    A STUDY OF THE ECONOMIC RELATION BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN AS A FACTOR
    IN SOCIAL EVOLUTION

    _358 pages, crown 8vo, cloth, 6s._


In writing this book it has been Mrs. Stetson's purpose to point out,
explain, and justify the changes now going on in the relations of
women to society. The subject is one which must inevitably come home
to every household in the country. No woman, whatever her position or
the conditions surrounding her, can read the book and not feel that
the whole argument applies to herself and her concerns almost like a
personal appeal.

In brief, the position taken is that women have for centuries been
economically dependent on men; that as a result women have been
tending to become more and more feminine and less and less normal
human beings. Even this bald statement of Mrs. Stetson's thesis will
serve to show the scope and importance of her book. The argument is
extended to every branch of social activity with remarkable
originality. It may safely be said that hardly any volume of recent
years has treated a confused subject with so much real intelligence
and in an attitude so singularly fair and high-minded.

It has been no part of Mrs. Stetson's purpose to write a dull book. On
the contrary, one of the surprising qualities of _Women and Economics_
is its readableness throughout--the really absorbing interest of its
argument even to the least scientific reader. It is a book hard to lay
down. One hardly knows which to admire the more,--its clearness,
earnestness, and courage, or the keen wit and shrewd satire which keep
its pages fresh and sparkling to the end.

Whether one finally agrees with Mrs. Stetson's position or not, _Women
and Economics_ is distinctly a book one cannot afford to miss. It is
worth reading if only for its high ideals of a finer marriage, a
family better nourished and better bred, a fuller life and opportunity
for childhood, and a more complete and better rounded womanhood in the
house as well as in society.


_WHAT THE CRITICS SAY_

"Mrs. Stetson's polemical poetry has a force and vigour of its own,
which may perhaps serve to drive home the arguments lucidly stated in
'Women and Economics.' She differs from other advocates of women's
rights, chiefly in her estimate of women as they are."--_Athenæum._

"There have been heard now and again whispers of feminine discontent,
hints that the relations of the sexes are on a not entirely
satisfactory footing, and suggestions that marriage from a woman's
point of view, comes near being a failure.... In her book Mrs. Stetson
goes to the very root of the matter, and turns hints, as it were, into
italics."--_World._

"The charm of the book lies in its evident sincerity, its eloquent
appeals to the higher side of human nature, and its wholesale
optimism. These qualities will make the book a power for good among
those who have hitherto given little thought to the position of women
in society, and the fearless exposure of many social evils will
stimulate such readers to serious thought."--_Fabian News._

"When we pass to the book of the lady whose inspiration is derived
from the expansive temperament of the great Republic of the West ...
we recognise at once how much more hopeful one can be when one is not
a citizen of a played-out European nation.... Mrs. Stetson's intention
is to show that what she calls the 'excessive sex development' of
women is responsible for some of the worst evils under which we
suffer.... With a great deal of what she says on this matter it is
impossible not to agree."--_Saturday Review._

"'Women and Economics' is a book to be read and a book to be thought
about, whether you may agree with it or not. If all the literature of
the feminist movement had been half so cogent, so accurately based on
fact, so sincere, and withal so pure and modest as this, the feminist
movement of to-day would have been a great deal farther advanced than
it is."--_Hearth and Home._

"Here is a book that, whether we look on its teaching as wholesome or
dangerous, we are bound to acknowledge to be of exceptional ability.
It is the book of a woman of a clear and of a trained intellect, and
of great courage. As such it demands attention and very likely will
get it--of the hostile kind--from many quarters."--_Bookman._

"To-day it will meet with opposition and dispute--more or less great as
we appreciate more or less truly the conditions of human progress. Ten
years hence--perhaps five years hence--it wil