e's all of the extra orders. It's
going to pay splendidly, mother! It clears $70 a year per person. Next
year it will clear a lot more."

It did not take long to make Mrs. Bell admit that if the business went
on as it had been going Diantha would be able to pay her a salary of
a thousand dollars, and have five hundred left--from the food business
alone.

There remained the hotel, with large possibilities. The present simple
furnishings were to be moved over to New Union House, and paid for by
the girls in due time. With new paint, paper, and furniture, the old
house would make a very comfortable place.

"Of course, it's the restaurant mainly--these big kitchens and the
central location are the main thing. The guests will be mostly tourists,
I suppose."

Diantha dwelt upon the prospect at some length; and even her cautious
mother had to admit that unless there was some setback the year had a
prospect of large success.

"How about all this new furnishing?" Mrs. Bell said suddenly. "How do
you cover that? Take what you've got ahead now?"

"Yes; there's plenty," said Diantha. "You see, there is all Union House
has made, and this summer's profit on the cooked food--it's plenty."

"Then you can't pay for the motor and cases as you planned," her mother
insisted.

"No, not unless the hotel and restaurant pays enough to make good. But
I don't _have_ to buy them the first year. If I don't, there is $5,500
leeway."

"Yes, you are safe enough; there's over $4,000 in the bank now," Mrs.
Bell admitted. "But, child," she said suddenly, "your father!"

"Yes, I've thought of father," said the girl, "and I mean to ask him to
come and live at the hotel. I think he'd like it. He could meet people
and talk about his ideas, and I'm sure I'd like to have him."

They talked much and long about this, till the evening settled about
them, till they had their quiet supper, and the girls came home to their
noisy one; and late that evening, when all was still again, Diantha came
to the dim piazza corner once more and sat there quite alone.

Full of hope, full of courage, sure of her progress--and aching with
loneliness.

She sat with her head in her hands, and to her ears came suddenly the
sound of a familiar step--a well-known voice--the hands and the lips of
her lover.

"Diantha!" He held her close.

"Oh, Ross! Ross! Darling! Is it true? When did you come? Oh, I'm so
glad! So _glad_ to see you!"

She was so glad that she had to cry a little on his shoulder, which he
seemed to thoroughly enjoy.

"I've good news for you, little girl," he said. "Good news at last!
Listen, dear; don't cry. There's an end in sight. A man has bought out
my shop. The incubus is off--I can _live_ now!"

He held his head up in a fine triumph, and she watched him adoringly.

"Did you--was it profitable?" she asked.

"It's all exchange, and some cash to boot. Just think! You know what
I've wanted so long--a ranch. A big one that would keep us all, and let
me go on with my work. And, dear--I've got it! It's a big fruit ranch,
with its own water--think of that! And a vegetable garden, too, and
small fruit, and everything. And, what's better, it's all in good
running order, with a competent ranchman, and two Chinese who rent the
vegetable part. And there are two houses on it--_two_. One for mother
and the girls, and one for us!"

Diantha's heart stirred suddenly.

"Where is it, dear?" she whispered.

He laughed joyfully. "It's _here!"_ he said. "About eight miles or so
out, up by the mountains; has a little canyon of its own--its own little
stream and reservoir. Oh, my darling! My darling!"

They sat in happy silence in the perfumed night. The strong arms were
around her, the big shoulder to lean on, the dear voice to call her
"little girl."

The year of separation vanished from their thoughts, and the long years
of companionship opened bright and glorious before them.

"I came this afternoon," he said at length, "but I saw another man
coming. He got here first. I thought--"

"Ross! You didn't! And you've left me to go without you all these
hours!"

"He looked so confident when he went away that I was jealous," Ross
admitted, "furiously jealous. And then your mother was here, and then
those cackling girls. I wanted you--alone."

And then he had her, alone, for other quiet, happy moments. She was so
glad of him. Her hold upon his hand, upon his coat, was tight.

"I don't know how I've lived without you," she said softly.

"Nor I," said he. "I haven't lived. It isn't life--without you. Well,
dearest, it needn't be much longer. We closed the deal this afternoon. I
came down here to see the place, and--incidentally--to see you!"

More silence.

"I shall turn over the store at once. It won't take long to move and
settle; there's enough money over to do that. And the ranch pays,
Diantha! It really _pays,_ and will carry us all. How long will it take
you to get out of this?"

"Get out of--what?" she faltered.

"Why, the whole abominable business you're so deep in here. Thank God,
there's no shadow of need for it any more!"

The girl's face went white, but he could not see it. She would not