 boiling with rebellion. To sit there and be lectured at the
table, to have her father complain of her, her mother invite pastoral
interference, the minister preach like that. She slapped her
grandmother's shoulder, readjusted the little knit shawl on the
straight back--and refrained from further speech.

When Mrs. Pettigrew could talk, she demanded suddenly of the
minister, "Have you read Campbell's New Theology?" and from that on
they were all occupied in listening to Mr. Williams' strong, clear and
extensive views on the subject--which lasted into the parlor again.

Vivian sat for awhile in the chair nearest the window, where some thin
thread of air might possibly leak in, and watched the minister with a
curious expression. All her life he had been held up to her as a
person to honor, as a man of irreproachable character, great learning
and wisdom. Of late she found with a sense of surprise that she did
not honor him at all. He seemed to her suddenly like a relic of past
ages, a piece of an old parchment--or papyrus. In the light of the
studies she had been pursuing in the well-stored town library, the
teachings of this worthy old gentleman appeared a jumble of age-old
traditions, superimposed one upon another.

"He's a palimpsest," she said to herself, "and a poor palimpsest at
that."

She sat with her shapely hands quiet in her lap while her
grandmother's shining needles twinkled in the dark wool, and her
mother's slim crochet hook ran along the widening spaces of some thin,
white, fuzzy thing. The rich powers of her young womanhood longed for
occupation, but she could never hypnotize herself with "fancywork."
Her work must be worth while. She felt the crushing cramp and
loneliness of a young mind, really stronger than those about her, yet
held in dumb subjection. She could not solace herself by loving them;
her father would have none of it, and her mother had small use for
what she called "sentiment." All her life Vivian had longed for more
loving, both to give and take; but no one ever imagined it of her, she
was so quiet and repressed in manner. The local opinion was that if a
woman had a head, she could not have a heart; and as to having a
body--it was indelicate to consider such a thing.

"I mean to have six children," Vivian had planned when she was younger.
"And they shall never be hungry for more loving." She meant to make up
to her vaguely imagined future family for all that her own youth missed.

Even Grandma, though far more sympathetic in temperament, was not
given to demonstration, and Vivian solaced her big, tender heart by
cuddling all the babies she could reach, and petting cats and dogs
when no children were to be found.

Presently she arose and bade a courteous goodnight to the still prolix
parson.

"I'm going over to Sue's," she said, and went out.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a moon again--a low, large moon, hazily brilliant. The air
was sweet with the odors of scarce-gone Summer, of coming Autumn.

The girl stood still, half-way down the path, and looked steadily into
that silver radiance. Moonlight always filled her heart with a vague
excitement, a feeling that something ought to happen--soon.

This flat, narrow life, so long, so endlessly long--would nothing ever
end it? Nine years since Morton went away! Nine years since the
strange, invading thrill of her first kiss! Back of that was only
childhood; these years really constituted Life; and Life, in the
girl's eyes, was a dreary treadmill.

She was externally quiet, and by conscience dutiful; so dutiful, so
quiet, so without powers of expression, that the ache of an
unsatisfied heart, the stir of young ambitions, were wholly
unsuspected by those about her. A studious, earnest, thoughtful
girl--but study alone does not supply life's needs, nor does such
friendship as her life afforded.

Susie was "a dear"--Susie was Morton's sister, and she was very fond
of her. But that bright-haired child did not understand--could not
understand--all that she needed.

Then came Mrs. St. Cloud into her life, stirring the depths of romance,
of the buried past, and of the unborn future. From her she learned to
face a life of utter renunciation, to be true, true to her ideals, true
to her principles, true to the past, to be patient; and to wait.

So strengthened, she had turned a deaf ear to such possible voice of
admiration as might have come from the scant membership of the Young
Men's Bible Class, leaving them the more devoted to Scripture study.
There was no thin ring to turn upon her finger; but, for lack of
better token, she had saved the rose she wore upon her breast that
night, keeping it hidden among her precious things.

And then, into the gray, flat current of her daily life, sharply
across the trend of Mrs. St. Cloud's soft influence, had come a new
force--Dr. Bellair.

Vivian liked her, yet felt afraid, a slight, shivering hesitancy as
before a too cold bath, a subtle sense that this breezy woman, strong,
cheerful, full of new ideas, if not ideals, and radiating actual
power, power used and enjoyed, might in some way change the m