wn to like and trust him much.

"What's this about the new house, Miss Bell? Your mother says I may
know."

"Why not?" she said. "You have followed this thing from the first. Sugar
or lemon? You see I want to disentangle the undertakings, set them upon
their own separate feet, and establish the practical working of each
one."

"I see," he said, "and 'day service' is not 'cooked food delivery.'"

"Nor yet 'rooms for entertainment'," she agreed. "We've got them all
labelled, mother and I. There's the 'd. s.' and 'c. f. d.' and 'r. f.
e.' and the 'p. p.' That's picnics and parties. And more coming."

"What, more yet? You'll kill yourself, Miss Bell. Don't go too fast. You
are doing a great work for humanity. Why not take a little more time?"

"I want to do it as quickly as I can, for reasons," answered Diantha.

Mr. Eltwood looked at her with tender understanding. "I don't want to
intrude any further than you are willing to want me," he said, "but
sometimes I think that even you--strong as you are--would be better for
some help."

She did not contradict him. Her hands were in her lap, her eyes on the
worn boards of the piazza floor. She did not see a man pass on the other
side of the street, cast a searching glance across and walk quickly on
again.

"If you were quite free to go on with your beautiful work," said Mr.
Eltwood slowly, "if you were offered heartiest appreciation, profound
respect, as well as love, of course; would you object to marrying, Miss
Bell?" asked in an even voice, as if it were a matter of metaphysical
inquiry. Mrs. Porne had told him of her theory as to a lover in the home
town, wishing to save him a long heart ache, but he was not sure of it,
and he wanted to be.

Diantha glanced quickly at him, and felt the emotion under his quiet
words. She withdrew her eyes, looking quite the other way.

"You are enough of a friend to know, Mr. Eltwood," she said, "I rather
thought you did know. I am engaged."

"Thank you for telling me; some one is greatly to be congratulated,"
he spoke sincerely, and talked quietly on about less personal matters,
holding his tea untasted till it was cold.

"Do let me give you some that is hot," she said at last, "and let me
thank you from my heart for the help and strength and comfort you have
been to me, Mr. Eltwood."

"I'm very glad," he said; and again, "I am very glad." "You may count
upon anything I can do for you, always," he continued. "I am proud to be
your friend."

He held her hand once more for a moment, and went away with his head up
and a firm step. To one who watched him go, he had almost a triumphant
air, but it was not triumph, only the brave beginning of a hard fight
and a long one.

Then came Mrs. Bell, returned from a shopping trip, and sank down in a
wicker rocker, glad of the shade and a cup of tea. No, she didn't want
it iced. "Hot tea makes you cooler," was her theory.

"You don't look very tired," said the girl. "Seems to me you get
stronger all the time."

"I do," said her mother. "You don't realize, you can't realize, Diantha,
what this means to me. Of course to you I am an old woman, a back
number--one has to feel so about one's mother. I did when I married, and
my mother then was five years younger than I am now."

"I don't think you old, mother, not a bit of it. You ought to have
twenty or thirty years of life before you, real life."

"That's just what I'm feeling," said Mrs. Bell, "as if I'd just begun to
live! This is so _different!_ There is a big, moving thing to work for.
There is--why Diantha, you wouldn't believe what a comfort it is to me
to feel that my work here is--really--adding to the profits!"

Diantha laughed aloud.

"You dear old darling," she said, "I should think it was! It is _making_
the profits."

"And it grows so," her mother went on. "Here's this part so well assured
that you're setting up the new Union House! Are you _sure_ about Mrs.
Jessup, dear?"

"As sure as I can be of any one till I've tried a long time. She has
done all I've asked her to here, and done it well. Besides, I mean to
keep a hand on it for a year or two yet--I can't afford to have that
fail."

Mrs. Jessup was an imported aunt, belonging to one of the cleverest
girls, and Diantha had had her in training for some weeks.

"Well, I guess she's as good as any you'd be likely to get," Mrs. Bell
admitted, "and we mustn't expect paragons. If this can't be done by an
average bunch of working women the world over, it can't be done--that's
all!"

"It can be done," said the girl, calmly. "It will be done. You see."

"Mr. Thaddler says you could run any kind of a business you set your
hand to," her mother went on. "He has a profound respect for your
abilities, Dina."

"Seems to me you and Mr. Thaddler have a good deal to say to each
other, motherkins. I believe you enjoy that caffeteria desk, and all the
compliments you get."

"I do," said Mrs. Bell stoutly. "I do indeed! Why, I haven't seen so
many men, to speak to, since--why, never in my life! And they are very
amusing--some of them. They like to come here--like it immensely. And I
don't wonder. I believe you'll do well 