 was triumph incarnate.

"And you never said a word!" This from Vivian.

"Not a word. Saved lots of trouble. Take care of me indeed! Laura
needn't think I'm dependent on her _yet_!"

Vivian's heart rather yearned over her mother, thus doubly bereft.

"The truth is," her grandmother went on, "Samuel wants to go to
Florida the worst way; I heard 'em talking about it! He wasn't willing
to go alone--not he! Wants somebody to hear him cough, I say! And
Laura couldn't go--'Mother was so dependent'--_Huh!_"

Vivian began to smile. She knew this had been talked over, and given
up on that account. She herself could have been easily disposed of,
but Mrs. Lane chose to think her mother a lifelong charge.

"Act as if I was ninety!" the old lady burst forth again. "I'll show
'em!"

"I think you're dead right, Mrs. Pettigrew," said Dr. Bellair. "Sixty
isn't anything. You ought to have twenty years of enjoyable life yet,
before they call you 'old'--maybe more."

Mrs. Pettigrew cocked an eye at her. "My grandmother lived to be a
hundred and four," said she, "and kept on working up to the last year.
I don't know about enjoyin' life, but she was useful for pretty near a
solid century. After she broke her hip the last time she sat still and
sewed and knitted. After her eyes gave out she took to hooking rugs."

"I hope it will be forty years, Mrs. Pettigrew," said Sue, "and I'm
real glad you're coming. It'll make it more like home."

Miss Elder was a little slow in accommodating herself to this new
accession. She liked Mrs. Pettigrew very much--but--a grandmother thus
airily at large seemed to unsettle the foundations of things. She was
polite, even cordial, but evidently found it difficult to accept the
facts.

"Besides," said Mrs. Pettigrew, "you may not get all those boarders at
once and I'll be one to count on. I stopped at the bank this morning
and had 'em arrange for my account out in Carston. They were some
surprised, but there was no time to ask questions!" She relapsed into
silence and gazed with keen interest at the whirling landscape.

Throughout the journey she proved the best of travelers; was never
car-sick, slept well in the joggling berth, enjoyed the food, and
continually astonished them by producing from her handbag the most
diverse and unlooked for conveniences. An old-fashioned traveller had
forgotten her watchkey--Grandma produced an automatic one warranted to
fit anything. "Takes up mighty little room--and I thought maybe it
would come in handy," she said.

She had a small bottle of liquid court-plaster, and plenty of the
solid kind. She had a delectable lotion for the hands, a real treasure
on the dusty journey; also a tiny corkscrew, a strong pair of
"pinchers," sewing materials, playing cards, string, safety-pins,
elastic bands, lime drops, stamped envelopes, smelling salts, troches,
needles and thread.

"Did you bring a trunk, Grandma?" asked Vivian.

"Two," said Grandma, "excess baggage. All paid for and checked."

"How did you ever learn to arrange things so well?" Sue asked
admiringly.

"Read about it," the old lady answered. "There's no end of directions
nowadays. I've been studying up."

She was so gleeful and triumphant, so variously useful, so steadily
gay and stimulating, that they all grew to value her presence long
before they reached Carston; but they had no conception of the
ultimate effect of a resident grandmother in that new and bustling
town.

To Vivian the journey was a daily and nightly revelation. She had read
much but traveled very little, never at night. The spreading beauty of
the land was to her a new stimulus; she watched by the hour the
endless panorama fly past her window, its countless shades of green,
the brown and red soil, the fleeting dashes of color where wild
flowers gathered thickly. She was repeatedly impressed by seeing
suddenly beside her the name of some town which had only existed in
her mind as "capital city" associated with "principal exports" and
"bounded on the north."

At night, sleeping little, she would raise her curtain and look out,
sideways, at the stars. Big shadowy trees ran by, steep cuttings rose
like a wall of darkness, and the hilly curves of open country rose and
fell against the sky line like a shaken carpet.

She faced the long, bright vistas of the car and studied people's
faces--such different people from any she had seen before. A heavy
young man with small, light eyes, sat near by, and cast frequent
glances at both the girls, going by their seat at intervals. Vivian
considered this distinctly rude, and Sue did not like his looks, so he
got nothing for his pains, yet even this added color to the day.

The strange, new sense of freedom grew in her heart, a feeling of
lightness and hope and unfolding purpose.

There was continued discussion as to what the girls should do.

"We can be waitresses for Auntie till we get something else," Sue
practically insisted. "The doctor says it will be hard to get good
service and I'm sure the boarders would like us."

"You can both find work if you want it. What do you want to do,
Vivian?" asked Dr. Bellair, not for the first