 time.

Vivian was still uncertain.

"I love children best," she said. "I could teach--but I haven't a
certificate. I'd _love_ a kindergarten; I've studied that--at home."

"Shouldn't wonder if you could get up a kindergarten right off," the
doctor assured her. "Meantime, as this kitten says, you could help
Miss Elder out and turn an honest penny while you're waiting."

"Wouldn't it--interfere with my teaching later?" the girl inquired.

"Not a bit, not a bit. We're not so foolish out here. We'll fix you up
all right in no time."

It was morning when they arrived at last and came out of the cindery,
noisy crowded cars into the wide, clean, brilliant stillness of the
high plateau. They drew deep breaths; the doctor squared her shoulders
with a glad, homecoming smile. Vivian lifted her head and faced the
new surroundings as an unknown world. Grandma gazed all ways, still
cheerful, and their baggage accrued about them as a rampart.

A big bearded man, carelessly dressed, whirled up in a dusty runabout,
and stepped out smiling. He seized Dr. Bellair by both hands, and
shook them warmly.

"Thought I'd catch you, Johnny," he said. "Glad to see you back. If
you've got the landlady, I've got the cook!"

"Here we are," said she. "Miss Orella Elder--Dr. Hale; Mrs.
Pettigrew, Miss Susie Elder, Miss Lane--Dr. Richard Hale."

He bowed deeply to Mrs. Pettigrew, shook hands with Miss Orella, and
addressed himself to her, giving only a cold nod to the two girls, and
quite turning away from them.

Susie, in quiet aside to Vivian, made unfavorable comment.

"This is your Western chivalry, is it?" she said. "Even Bainville does
better than that."

"I don't know why we should mind," Vivian answered. "It's Dr.
Bellair's friend; he don't care anything about us."

But she was rather of Sue's opinion.

The big man took Dr. Bellair in his car, and they followed in a
station carriage, eagerly observing their new surroundings, and
surprised, as most Easterners are, by the broad beauty of the streets
and the modern conveniences everywhere--electric cars, electric
lights, telephones, soda fountains, where they had rather expected to
find tents and wigwams.

The house, when they were all safely within it, turned out to be "just
like a real house," as Sue said; and proved even more attractive than
the doctor had described it. It was a big, rambling thing, at home
they would have called it a hotel, with its neat little sign, "The
Cottonwoods," and Vivian finally concluded that it looked like a
seaside boarding house, built for the purpose.

A broad piazza ran all across the front, the door opening into a big
square hall, a sort of general sitting-room; on either side were four
good rooms, opening on a transverse passage. The long dining-room and
kitchen were in the rear of the hall.

Dr. Bellair had two, her office fronting on the side street, with a
bedroom behind it. They gave Mrs. Pettigrew the front corner room on
that side and kept the one opening from the hall as their own parlor.
In the opposite wing was Miss Elder's room next the hall, and the
girls in the outer back corner, while the two front ones on that side
were kept for the most impressive and high-priced boarders.

Mrs. Pettigrew regarded her apartments with suspicion as being too
"easy."

"I don't mind stairs," she said. "Dr. Bellair has to be next her
office--but why do I have to be next Dr. Bellair?"

It was represented to her that she would be nearer to everything that
went on and she agreed without more words.

Dr. Hale exhibited the house as if he owned it.

"The agent's out of town," he said, "and we don't need him anyway. He
said he'd do anything you wanted, in reason."

Dr. Bellair watched with keen interest the effect of her somewhat daring
description, as Miss Orella stepped from room to room examining
everything with a careful eye, with an expression of growing
generalship. Sue fluttered about delightedly, discovering advantages
everywhere and making occasional disrespectful remarks to Vivian about
Dr. Hale's clothes.

"Looks as if he never saw a clothes brush!" she said. "A finger out on
his glove, a button off his coat. No need to tell us there's no woman
in his house!"

"You can decide about your cook when you've tried her," he said to
Miss Elder. "I engaged her for a week--on trial. She's in the kitchen
now, and will have your dinner ready presently. I think you'll like
her, if----"

"Good boy!" said Dr. Bellair. "Sometimes you show as much sense as a
woman--almost."

"What's the 'if'" asked Miss Orella, looking worried.

"Question of character," he answered. "She's about forty-five, with a
boy of sixteen or so. He's not over bright, but a willing worker.
She's a good woman--from one standpoint. She won't leave that boy nor
give him up to strangers; but she has a past!"

"What is her present?" Dr. Bellair asked, "that's the main thing."

Dr. Hale clapped her approvingly on the shoulder, but looked
doubtingly toward Miss Orella.

"And what's her future if somebody don't help her?" Vivian urged.

"Can she cook?" asked Grandma.

"Is she a safe person to have in the house?" inqui