 agreeable friends. Nothing was said of "chaps,"
"sombreros," or "shooting up the town," however, and therein a
distinct sense of loss was felt.

Much of what was passing in Vivian's mind she could not make clear to
her mother had she wished to. The daily presence and very friendly
advances of so many men, mostly young and all polite (with the
exception of Dr. Hale, whose indifference was almost rude by
contrast), gave a new life and color to the days.

She could not help giving some thought to this varied assortment, and
the carefully preserved image of Morton, already nine years dim, waxed
dimmer. But she had a vague consciousness of being untrue to her ideals,
or to Mrs. St. Cloud's ideals, now somewhat discredited, and did not
readily give herself up to the cheerful attractiveness of the position.

Susie found no such difficulty. Her ideals were simple, and while
quite within the bounds of decorum, left her plenty of room for
amusement. So popular did she become, so constantly in demand for
rides and walks and oft-recurring dances, that Vivian felt called upon
to give elder sisterly advice.

But Miss Susan scouted her admonitions.

"Why shouldn't I have a good time?" she said. "Think how we grew up!
Half a dozen boys to twenty girls, and when there was anything to go
to--the lordly way they'd pick and choose! And after all our efforts
and machinations most of us had to dance with each other. And the
quarrels we had! Here they stand around three deep asking for
dances--and _they_ have to dance with each other, and _they_ do the
quarreling. I've heard 'em." And Sue giggled delightedly.

"There's no reason we shouldn't enjoy ourselves, Susie, of course, but
aren't you--rather hard on them?"

"Oh, nonsense!" Sue protested. "Dr. Bellair said I should get married
out here! She says the same old thing--that it's 'a woman's duty,' and
I propose to do it. That is--they'll propose, and I won't do it! Not
till I make up my mind. Now see how you like this!"

She had taken a fine large block of "legal cap" and set down their
fifteen men thereon, with casual comment.

1. Mr. Unwin--Too old, big, quiet.

2. Mr. Elmer Skee--Big, too old, funny.

3. Jimmy Saunders--Middle-sized, amusing, nice.

4. P. R. Gibbs--Too little, too thin, too cocky.

5. George Waterson--Middling, pretty nice.

6. J. J. Cuthbert--Big, horrid.

7. Fordham Greer--Big, pleasant.

8. W. S. Horton--Nothing much.

9. A. L. Dykeman--Interesting, too old.

10. Professor Toomey--Little, horrid.

11. Arthur Fitzwilliam--Ridiculous, too young.

12. Howard Winchester--Too nice, distrust him.

13. Lawson W. Briggs--Nothing much.

14. Edward S. Jenks--Fair to middling.

15. Mr. A. Smith--Minus.

She held it up in triumph. "I got 'em all out of the book--quite
correct. Now, which'll you have."

"Susie Elder! You little goose! Do you imagine that all these fifteen
men are going to propose to you?"

"I'm sure I hope so!" said the cheerful damsel. "We've only been
settled a fortnight and one of 'em has already!"

Vivian was impressed at once. "Which?--You don't mean it!"

Sue pointed to the one marked "minus."

"It was only 'A. Smith.' I never should be willing to belong to 'A.
Smith,' it's too indefinite--unless it was a last resort. Several more
are--well, extremely friendly! Now don't look so severe. You needn't
worry about me. I'm not quite so foolish as I talk, you know."

She was not. Her words were light and saucy, but she was as demure and
decorous a little New Englander as need be desired; and she could not
help it if the hearts of the unattached young men of whom the town was
full, warmed towards her.

Dr. Bellair astonished them at lunch one day in their first week.

"Dick Hale wants us all to come over to tea this afternoon," she said,
as if it was the most natural thing in the world.

"Tea? Where?" asked Mrs. Pettigrew sharply.

"At his house. He has 'a home of his own,' you know. And he
particularly wants you, Mrs. Pettigrew--and Miss Elder--the girls, of
course."

"I'm sure I don't care to go," Vivian remarked with serene
indifference, but Susie did.

"Oh, come on, Vivian! It'll be so funny! A man's home!--and we may
never get another chance. He's such a bear!"

Dr. Hale's big house was only across the road from theirs, standing in
a large lot with bushes and trees about it.

"He's been here nine years," Dr. Bellair told them. "That's an old
inhabitant for us. He boarded in that house for a while; then it was for
sale and he bought it. He built that little office of his at the
corner--says he doesn't like to live where he works, or work where he
lives. He took his meals over here for a while--and then set up for
himself."

"I should think he'd be lonely," Miss Elder suggested.

"Oh, he has his boys, you know--always three or four young fellows
about him. It's a mighty good thing for them, too."

Dr. Hale's home proved a genuine surprise. They had regarded it as a
big, neglected-looking place, and found on entering the gate that the
inside view of that rampant shrubbery was extremely pleasant. Though
not close cut and swept of leaves and twigs, it still was beautifu