 apiece
from each family.

This would give, as a minimum, five extra children on one afternoon a
week to each mother. The maximum would be of course uncertain; but, if
all the children of each mother were thus to go visiting for any part
of the day, it would give to each one day in which that larger
responsibility was undertaken, and five days free. There would remain
Sunday, in which each family, complete, would be at home.

Now let us take a hypothetical case, and suppose that our six mothers,
with considerable trepidation, have chosen one child apiece that they
were willing to intrust for the afternoon to the watchful care of
these familiar friends. The children, be it rigidly insisted, are to
know nothing whatever of the purposes or methods involved. All that
little Johnny Black knows is that Mrs. White has asked him to come
over on Monday afternoon and play with Alice and Billy White, and some
other children that he knows, too; that presently Mrs. Green has them
come to her house on Tuesday, and Mrs. Brown on Wednesday; that his
mamma lets them all come and play with him on Thursday,--in short,
that his afternoons have become full and rich and pleasantly exciting,
like some wonderful procession of parties.

"Not like regular parties, either," Johnny would explain. "You don't
have to dress up--much,--just be clean, to begin with. And they don't
have ice-cream and macaroons,--only just milk and crackers when you
get hungry; and--well, 'tisn't so much regular games and p'r'aps
dancin'--like a party,--we just play. And Mrs. White, or whichever one
'tis, she generally has some nice young lady in with her; and they
sort of keep things going,--as if 'twas a real party. It's nicer some
ways, I think."

"And which place do you like best, Johnny?"

"Oh, I do' know! Billy White has the biggest yard. But Jim Grey has
the best swing; and there's a pond at Susy Green's,--a real pond,--and
nothing but girls live there! Then it's lots of fun when they come to
our house, 'cause I can show 'em my rabbits and make Jack do all his
tricks."

Yes, the children all enjoy it. It means variety, it means company, it
means a wider and closer acquaintance and all the benefits of
well-chosen association and larger environment. It fills a part of the
day. There is no more aimless asking, "What shall I do now?" with the
vague response, "Oh, run away and play!" or the suggestion of some
well-worn amusement.

It means, too, a little more sense of "company manners" and behaviour,
and, on the other hand, a better appreciation of home life.

And to the mother,--what good will this do her?

Each mother would have one day in the week in which to carefully
observe children,--_not_ her own specially beloved children, but just
children, as such. Her observation and care should be absolutely
unobtrusive: the moment the little ones knew they were being watched,
the value of the plan would be greatly impaired; and, to stop at a
minor detail, from the palpable necessity for doing this work without
the child's consciousness, mothers would learn to cover the machinery
of government at home. It is one of our grossest and most frequent
errors in the management of children that we openly discuss our
efforts and failures. They know that we are struggling to produce
certain results in their behaviour, usually in a futile manner.

With, however, a large and definite purpose resting so absolutely on
the child's unconsciousness, more wisdom in this line would soon
develope.

The mother who now says, "What would you do with a child like that?"
or "I'm sure I don't know what to do with that child!" before the
child in question, would soon perceive that such an attitude in an
educator does not produce confidence in the object of the education.
Quietly and unostentatiously, and often with the assistance of some
keen girl-friend, these mothers would soon learn to observe
accurately, to generalise carefully, to reduce cautiously, and then to
put the deduction into practice and observe the results.

As beginners, pioneers, they should make their first steps very
modestly. For the first season some one trait should be chosen for
study,--say self-control or courage or consideration of others. Having
decided on their line of observation, let each mother make a little
note of how high each child in the group stands in this line.

How much self-control has my Johnny, as measured by his age?--as
compared with others of his age? When did I first notice self-control
in Johnny? When have I seen it greatest? Does he gain in it? What
should be done to help Johnny gain in self-control? And then go over
the same questions with regard to the other children.

Then, with self-control as the characteristic, the natural development
and best education of which they wish to study, the afternoon parties
begin. At first the children might be left absolutely free to play in
ordinary lines. Then, after the first observations were recorded,
delicate experiments could be introduced, and their results added to
the record.

It is very difficult for the individual mother to rightly estimate
her own children. 