herself, she questioned that
gentleman indirectly as to his age, drawing from him astounding
memories of the previous century.

When confronted with historic proof that the events he described were
over a hundred years passed, he would apologize, admitting that he had
no memory for dates. She owned one day, with gentle candor, to being
thirty-three.

"That must seem quite old to a man like you, Mr. Skee. I feel very
old sometimes!" She lifted large eyes to him, and drew her filmy scarf
around her shoulders.

"Your memory must be worse than mine, ma'am," he replied, "and work
the same way. You've sure got ten or twenty years added on
superfluous! Now me!" He shook his head; "I don't remember when I was
born at all. And losin' my folks so young, _and_ the family Bible--I
don't expect I ever shall. But I 'low I'm all of ninety-seven."

This being palpably impossible, and as the only local incidents he
could recall in his youth were quite dateless adventures among the
Indians, she gave it up. Why Mr. Skee should have interested her at
all was difficult to say, unless it was the appeal to his
uncertainty--he was at least a game fish, if not edible.

Of the women she met, Susie and Vivian were far the most attractive,
wherefore Mrs. St. Cloud, with subtle sympathy and engaging frankness,
fairly cast Mr. Saunders in Susie's arms, and vice versa, as
opportunity occurred.

Morton she rather snubbed, treated him as a mere boy, told tales of his
childhood that were in no way complimentary--so that he fled from her.

With Vivian she renewed her earlier influence to a great degree.

With some inquiry and more intuition she discovered what it was that
had chilled the girl's affection for her.

"I don't wonder, my dear child," she said; "I never told you of
that--I never speak of it to anyone.... It was one of the--" she
shivered slightly--"darkest griefs of a very dark time.... He was a
beautiful boy.... I never _dreamed_----"

The slow tears rose in her beautiful eyes till they shone like
shimmering stars.

"Heaven send no such tragedy may ever come into your life, dear!"

She reached a tender hand to clasp the girl's. "I am so glad of your
happiness!"

Vivian was silent. As a matter of fact, she was not happy enough to
honestly accept sympathy. Mrs. St. Cloud mistook her attitude, or
seemed to.

"I suppose you still blame me. Many people did. I often blame myself.
One cannot be _too_ careful. It's a terrible responsibility,
Vivian--to have a man love you."

The girl's face grew even more somber. That was one thing which was
troubling her.

"But your life is all before you," pursued the older woman. "Your
dream has come true! How happy--how wonderfully happy you must be!"

"I am not, not _really_," said the girl. "At least----"

"I know--I know; I understand," Mrs. St. Cloud nodded with tender
wisdom. "You are not sure. Is not that it?"

That was distinctly "it," and Vivian so agreed.

"There is no other man?"

"Not the shadow of one!" said the girl firmly. And as her questioner
had studied the field and made up her mind to the same end, she
believed her.

"Then you must not mind this sense of uncertainty. It always happens.
It is part of the morning clouds of maidenhood, my dear--it vanishes
with the sunrise!" And she smiled beatifically.

Then the girl unburdened herself of her perplexities. She could
always express herself so easily to this sympathetic friend.

"There are so many things that I--dislike--about him," she said.
"Habits of speech--of manners. He is not--not what I----"

She paused.

"Not all the Dream! Ah! My dear child, they never are! We are given
these beautiful ideals to guard and guide us; but the real is never
quite the same. But when a man's soul opens to you--when he loves--these
small things vanish. They can be changed--you will change them."

"Yes--he says so," Vivian admitted. "He says that he knows that he
is--unworthy--and has done wrong things. But so have I, for that
matter."

Mrs. St. Cloud agreed with her. "I am glad you feel that, my dear. Men
have their temptations--their vices--and we good women are apt to be
hard on them. But have we no faults? Ah, my dear, I have seen good
women--young girls, like yourself--ruin a man's whole life by--well,
by heartlessness; by lack of understanding. Most young men do things
they become ashamed of when they really love. And in the case of a
motherless boy like this--lonely, away from his home, no good woman's
influence about--what else could we expect? But you can make a new man
of him. A glorious work!"

"That's what he says. I'm not so sure--" The girl hesitated.

"Not sure you can? Oh, my child, it is the most beautiful work on
earth! To see from year to year a strong, noble character grow under
your helping hand! To be the guiding star, the inspiration of a man's
life. To live to hear him say:

      "'Ah, who am I that God should bow
        From heaven to choose a wife for me?
      What have I done He should endow
        My home with thee?'"

There was a silence.

Vivian's dark eyes shone with appreciation for the tender beauty of
the lines, the lovely though