 her heels. Quite too
young and too charming she was for this friendship game. She said that
such a friendship was 'an ennobling influence' for the boys. She
called them her 'acolytes.' Lots of them were fairly mad about
her--one young chap was so desperate over it that he shot himself."

There was a pained silence.

"I don't see what this has to do with going to Colorado," said Mrs.
Pettigrew, looking from one to the other with a keen, observing eye.
"What's your plan, Dr. Bellair?"

"Why, I'm trying to persuade my old friend here to leave this place,
change her occupation, come out to Colorado with me, and grow up.
She's a case of arrested development."

"She wants me to keep boarders!" Miss Elder plaintively protested to
Mrs. Pettigrew.

That lady was not impressed.

"It's quite a different matter out there, Mrs. Pettigrew," the doctor
explained. "'Keeping boarders' in this country goes to the tune of
'Come Ye Disconsolate!' It's a doubtful refuge for women who are
widows or would be better off if they were. Where I live it's a sure
thing if well managed--it's a good business."

Mrs. Pettigrew wore an unconvinced aspect.

"What do you call 'a good business?'" she asked.

"The house I have in mind cleared a thousand a year when it was in
right hands. That's not bad, over and above one's board and lodging.
That house is in the market now. I've just had a letter from a friend
about it. Orella could go out with me, and step right into Mrs.
Annerly's shoes--she's just giving up."

"What'd she give up for?" Mrs. Pettigrew inquired suspiciously.

"Oh--she got married; they all do. There are three men to one woman in
that town, you see."

"I didn't know there was such a place in the world--unless it was a
man-of-war," remarked Susie, looking much interested.

Dr. Bellair went on more quietly.

"It's not even a risk, Mrs. Pettigrew. Rella has a cousin who would
gladly run this house for her. She's admitted that much. So there's no
loss here, and she's got her home to come back to. I can write to Dick
Hale to nail the proposition at once. She can go when I go, in about a
fortnight, and I'll guarantee the first year definitely."

"I wouldn't think of letting you do that, Jane! And if it's as good as
you say, there's no need. But a fortnight! To leave home--in a
fortnight!"

"What are the difficulties?" the old lady inquired. "There are always
some difficulties."

"You are right, there," agreed the doctor. "The difficulties in this
place are servants. But just now there's a special chance in that line.
Dick says the best cook in town is going begging. I'll read you his
letter."

She produced it, promptly, from the breast pocket of her neat coat.
Dr. Bellair wore rather short, tailored skirts of first-class
material; natty, starched blouses--silk ones for "dress," and
perfectly fitting light coats. Their color and texture might vary with
the season, but their pockets, never.

"'My dear Jane' (This is my best friend out there--a doctor, too. We
were in the same class, both college and medical school. We
fight--he's a misogynist of the worst type--but we're good friends all
the same.) 'Why don't you come back? My boys are lonesome without you,
and I am overworked--you left so many mishandled invalids for me to
struggle with. Your boarding house is going to the dogs. Mrs. Annerly
got worse and worse, failed completely and has cleared out, with a
species of husband, I believe. The owner has put in a sort of
caretaker, and the roomers get board outside--it's better than what
they were having. Moreover, the best cook in town is hunting a job.
Wire me and I'll nail her. You know the place pays well. Now, why
don't you give up your unnatural attempt to be a doctor and assume
woman's proper sphere? Come back and keep house!'

"He's a great tease, but he tells the truth. The house is there,
crying to be kept. The boarders are there--unfed. Now, Orella Elder,
why don't you wake up and seize the opportunity?"

Miss Orella was thinking.

"Where's that last letter of Morton's?"

Susie looked for it. Vivian handed it to her, and Miss Elder read it
once more.

"There's plenty of homeless boys out there besides yours, Orella," the
doctor assured her. "Come on--and bring both these girls with you.
It's a chance for any girl, Miss Lane."

But her friend did not hear her. She found what she was looking for in
the letter and read it aloud. "I'm on the road again now, likely to be
doing Colorado most of the year if things go right. It's a fine
country."

Susie hopped up with a little cry.

"Just the thing, Aunt Rella! Let's go out and surprise Mort. He thinks
we are just built into the ground here. Won't it be fun, Viva?"

Vivian had risen from her seat and stood at the window, gazing out with
unseeing eyes at the shadowy little front yard. Morton might be there.
She might see him. But--was it womanly to go there--for that? There were
other reasons, surely. She had longed for freedom, for a chance to grow,
to do something in life--something great and beautiful! Perhaps this was
the opening of the gate, the opportunity of a lifetime.

"You folks are so stro