, are you down on me too? I thought I had one friend."

"You ought to tell me," she said more gently. "How can I be your friend
if I don't know the facts? They are saying perfectly awful things."

"Who are?"

"Why--the Foote girls--everybody."

"Oh those old maids aren't everybody, I assure you. You see, Vivian,
you live right here in this old oyster of a town--and you make
mountains out of molehills like everybody else. A girl of your
intelligence ought to know better."

She drew a great breath of relief. "Then you haven't--done it?"

"Done what? What's all this mysterious talk anyhow? The prisoner has a
right to know what he's charged with before he commits himself."

The girl was silent, finding it difficult to begin.

"Well, out with it. What do they say I did?" He picked up a long dry
twig and broke it, gradually, into tiny, half-inch bits.

"They say you--went to the city--with a lot of the worst boys in
college----"

"Well? Many persons go to the city every day. That's no crime, surely.
As for 'the worst boys in college,'"--he laughed scornfully--"I
suppose those old ladies think if a fellow smokes a cigarette or says
'darn' he's a tough. They're mighty nice fellows, that bunch--most of
'em. Got some ginger in 'em, that's all. What else?"

"They say--you drank."

"O ho! Said I got drunk, I warrant! Well--we did have a skate on that
time, I admit!" And he laughed as if this charge were but a familiar
joke.

"Why Morton Elder! I think it is a--disgrace!"

"Pshaw, Vivian!--You ought to have more sense. All the fellows get gay
once in a while. A college isn't a young ladies' seminary."

He reached out and got hold of her hand again, but she drew it away.

"There was something else," she said.

"What was it?" he questioned sharply. "What did they say?"

But she would not satisfy him--perhaps could not.

"I should think you'd be ashamed, to make your aunt so much trouble.
They said you were suspended--or--_expelled_!"

He shrugged his big shoulders and threw away the handful of broken
twigs.

"That's true enough--I might as well admit that."

"Oh, _Morton_!--I didn't believe it. _Expelled!_"

"Yes, expelled--turned down--thrown out--fired! And I'm glad of it." He
leaned back against the fence and whistled very softly through his
teeth.

"Sh! Sh!" she urged. "Please!"

He was quiet.

"But Morton--what are you going to do?--Won't it spoil your career?"

"No, my dear little girl, it will not!" said he. "On the contrary, it
will be the making of me. I tell you, Vivian, I'm sick to death of this
town of maiden ladies--and 'good family men.' I'm sick of being fussed
over for ever and ever, and having wristers and mufflers knitted for
me--and being told to put on my rubbers! There's no fun in this old
clamshell--this kitchen-midden of a town--and I'm going to quit it."

He stood up and stretched his long arms. "I'm going to quit it for
good and all."

The girl sat still, her hands gripping the seat on either side.

"Where are you going?" she asked in a low voice.

"I'm going west--clear out west. I've been talking with Aunt Rella
about it. Dr. Bellair'll help me to a job, she thinks. She's awful cut
up, of course. I'm sorry she feels bad--but she needn't, I tell her. I
shall do better there than I ever should have here. I know a fellow
that left college--his father failed--and he went into business and
made two thousand dollars in a year. I always wanted to take up
business--you know that!"

She knew it--he had talked of it freely before they had argued and
persuaded him into the college life. She knew, too, how his aunt's hopes
all centered in him, and in his academic honors and future professional
life. "Business," to his aunt's mind, was a necessary evil, which could
at best be undertaken only after a "liberal education."

"When are you going," she asked at length.

"Right off--to-morrow."

She gave a little gasp.

"That's what I was whippoorwilling about--I knew I'd get no other
chance to talk to you--I wanted to say good-by, you know."

The girl sat silent, struggling not to cry. He dropped beside her,
stole an arm about her waist, and felt her tremble.

"Now, Viva, don't you go and cry! I'm sorry--I really am sorry--to
make _you_ feel bad."

This was too much for her, and she sobbed frankly.

"Oh, Morton! How could you! How could you!--And now you've got to go
away!"

"There now--don't cry--sh!--they'll hear you."

She did hush at that.

"And don't feel so bad--I'll come back some time--to see you."

"No, you won't!" she answered with sudden fierceness. "You'll just
go--and stay--and I never shall see you again!"

He drew her closer to him. "And do you care--so much--Viva?"

"Of course, I care!" she said, "Haven't we always been friends, the
best of friends?"

"Yes--you and Aunt Rella have been about all I had," he admitted with
a cheerful laugh. "I hope I'll make more friends out yonder. But
Viva,"--his hand pressed closer--"is it only--friends?"

She took fright at once and drew away from him. "You mustn't do that,
Morton!"

"Do what?" A shaft of moonlight shone on his teasing face. "What am I
doing?" he said.

It is diffi