's no use to tell a woman who has buried all her
children--or wishes she had!--that it was all owing to her ignorance,
and her husband's. You have to know beforehand if it's to do you any
good."

After awhile she continued: "Women are waking up to this all over the
country, now. Nice women, old and young. The women's clubs and
congresses are taking it up, as they should. Some states have passed
laws requiring a medical certificate--a clean bill of health--to go
with a license to marry. You can see that's reasonable! A man has to
be examined to enter the army or navy, even to get his life insured;
Marriage and Parentage are more important than those things! And we
are beginning to teach children and young people what they ought to
know. There's hope for us!"

"But Grandma--it's so awful--about the children."

"Yes dear, yes. It's pretty awful. But don't feel as if we were all on
the brink of perdition. Remember that we've got a whole quarter of the
men to bank on. That's a good many, in this country. We're not so bad
as Europe--not yet--in this line. Then just think of this, child. We
have lived, and done splendid things all these years, even with this
load of disease on us. Think what we can do when we're rid of it! And
that's in the hands of woman, my dear--as soon as we know enough.
Don't be afraid of knowledge. When we all know about this we can stop
it! Think of that. We can religiously rid the world of all
these--'undesirable citizens.'"

"How, Grandma?"

"Easy enough, my dear. By not marrying them."

There was a lasting silence.

Grandma finally went to sleep, making a little soft whistling sound
through her parted lips; but Vivian lay awake for long slow hours.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was one thing to make up her own mind, though not an easy one, by
any means; it was quite another to tell Morton.

He gave her no good opportunity. He did not say again, "Will you marry
me?" So that she could say, "No," and be done with it. He did not even
say, "When will you marry me?" to which she could answer "Never!" He
merely took it for granted that she was going to, and continued to
monopolize her as far as possible, with all pleasant and comfortable
attentions.

She forced the situation even more sharply than she wished, by turning
from him with a shiver when he met her on the stairs one night and
leaned forward as if to kiss her.

He stopped short.

"What is the matter, Vivian--are you ill?"

"No--" She could say nothing further, but tried to pass him.

"Look here--there _is_ something. You've been--different--for several
days. Have I done anything you don't like?"

"Oh, Morton!" His question was so exactly to the point; and so
exquisitely inadequate! He had indeed.

"I care too much for you to let anything stand between us now," he
went on.

"Come, there's no one in the upper hall--come and 'tell me the
worst.'"

"As well now as ever." thought the girl. Yet when they sat on the long
window seat, and he turned his handsome face toward her, with that
newer, better look on it, she could not believe that this awful thing
was true.

"Now then--What is wrong between us?" he said.

She answered only, "I will tell you the worst, Morton. I cannot marry
you--ever."

He whitened to the lips, but asked quietly, "Why?"

"Because you have--Oh, I _cannot_ tell you!"

"I have a right to know, Vivian. You have made a man of me. I love you
with my whole heart. What have I done--that I have not told you?"

Then she recalled his contrite confessions; and contrasted what he had
told her with what he had not; with the unspeakable fate to which he
would have consigned her--and those to come; and a sort of holy rage
rose within her.

"You never told me of the state of your health, Morton."

It was done. She looked to see him fall at her feet in utter
abashment, but he did nothing of the kind. What he did do astonished
her beyond measure. He rose to his feet, with clenched fists.

"Has that damned doctor been giving me away?" he demanded. "Because if
he has I'll kill him!"

"He has not," said Vivian. "Not by the faintest hint, ever. And is
_that_ all you think of?--

"Good-bye."

She rose to leave him, sick at heart.

Then he seemed to realize that she was going; that she meant it.

"Surely, surely!" he cried, "you won't throw me over now! Oh, Vivian!
I told you I had been wild--that I wasn't fit to touch your little
slippers! And I wasn't going to ask you to marry me till I felt sure
this was all done with. All the rest of my life was yours, darling--is
yours. You have made me over--surely you won't leave me now!"

"I must," she said.

He looked at her despairingly. If he lost her he lost not only a
woman, but the hope of a life. Things he had never thought about
before had now grown dear to him; a home, a family, an honorable place
in the world, long years of quiet happiness.

"I can't lose you!" he said. "I _can't_!"

She did not answer, only sat there with a white set face and her hands
tight clenched in her lap.

"Where'd you get this idea anyhow?" he burst out again. "I believe
it's that woman doctor! What does she know!"

"