l be accepted eagerly.
Twenty years hence it will be a mere milestone of history. These are the
stages through which books must pass which contain true analyses of
transient societies. But the literary historian who somewhere towards the
latter half of the twentieth century looks up Mrs. Stetson's volume, will
find amid phrases grown old-fashioned, and arguments long since admitted,
a sparkle of wit, a lucidity of statement and an admirable spirit of
justice and allowance, likely even in those improved days to be still
rare among controversialists."--_Academy._

"There is one thing at all events that may be predicated of this book.
It is admirably devised for the purpose of making a dust.... There are
some who will read Mrs. Stetson's book with anger or will turn from it
with repulsion. I cannot put myself in their place. To me it seems
that the courageous and clear-headed American woman speaks as a rule
the language of reason and sense. I read her with pleasure and
gratitude.... It is an honest and stimulating book. Perfect in temper,
noble in intention, and therefore it is to be cordially
welcomed."--_Sunday Sun._

"Mrs. Stetson is such a specimen of the modern woman as it does one
good to encounter. She is strong and clear; as free from noise as from
flippancy.... 'Women and Economics' is a book to read."--_Echo._

"Mrs. Stetson's contribution to the woman question is a notable one,
but it is notable chiefly because of its logical conclusions, its
constructive ability, its art of putting things in an arranging
way."--_Humanitarian._




    IN THIS OUR WORLD

    REVISED AND ENLARGED EDITION

    _16mo, cloth, ornamental, gilt top, with a photogravure frontispiece
    from a recent photograph, 5s._


This new Edition, following the little pamphlet volumes issued on the
Pacific Coast, should give her book a popularity as wide as the
country. Certainly the vigour, the _verve_, the deep moral
earnestness, and the delightful humour and extraordinary talent for
satire which she displays in these poems, have hardly been surpassed.
The volume is divided into three parts. The first, entitled _The
World_, ranges in subject from _Similar Cases_ and _An Obstacle_ (to
name only two of those satirical pieces by which Mrs. Stetson has
hitherto been best known), to lyrics of nature remarkable for their
tender sympathy and loving observation. While the third part, called
_The March_, deals with the "forward movement" of human brotherhood
which has always been so dear to Mrs. Stetson's heart.


_PRESS NOTICES_

"Mrs. Stetson's civic satire is of a form which she has herself
invented; it recalls the work of no one else; you can say of it that
since the Biglow Papers there has been no satire approaching it in the
wit flashing from profound conviction."--W. D. HOWELLS in the _North
American Review_.

"Mrs. Stetson has plenty to say, especially when her theme is
revolt."--_Spectator._

"She puts things in a new way and succeeds by sheer intensity of
insight and directness of personal consciousness. The book is too
exclusively occupied with morals, no doubt; but this is an Anglo-Saxon
weakness--or strength, and, like everything else, it is justified when
it succeeds.... We do not say that this is a volume of great poetry,
but we do say that it is an original and interesting book, one of the
best kind, the kind that makes us stop and think."--_Literature._

"On the whole Mrs. Stetson's little book is a refreshing proof of the
spread of culture in California."--_Manchester Guardian._

"The gospel which C. P. Stetson preaches in her delightful verses, 'In
this our World,' is as original as it is well expressed. It is not
only in the novelty of the theme, but also in the freshness and vigour
of her diction, that her charm lies.... She is really a very
remarkable writer, and possesses a power of thought and expression
seldom met with."--_Gentlewoman._




    THE YELLOW WALL PAPER

    _12mo, paper boards, 2s._


"Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson's 'The Yellow Wall Paper' is a conceit
fantastical and gruesome enough to have emanated from the brain of
Edgar Poe. It is written with remarkable vividness, as if the writer
had experienced something very like the misery which she describes.
There is nothing extravagant or unreal in the narration. Wall-papers,
yellow and other coloured, have had often a pernicious influence on
people of defective nervous poise, and quite unbalanced them. Mrs.
Stetson's story has a purely literary justification, but is none the
worse for teaching a lesson which some loving husbands and parents
would do well to heed."--_Christian Register._




    TALKS WITH BARBARA

    Being an Informal and Experimental Discussion, from the Point
    of View of a Young Woman of To-morrow, of certain of the
    Complexities of Life, particularly in regard to the Relations
    of Men and Women

    By ELIZABETH KNIGHT TOMPKINS

    AUTHOR OF "HER MAJESTY," "THE THINGS THAT COUNT," ETC.

    _Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s._


Miss Tompkins sets forth in this volume certain striking opinions in
regard to the problems which confront young men and 