n when Morton Elder left, suddenly and without warning, to the
great grief of his aunt and astonishment of his sister, their medical
neighbor still "sulked in his tent"--or at least in his office.

Morton's departure had but one explanation; it must be that Vivian had
refused him, and she did not deny it.

"But why, Vivian, why? He has improved so--it was just getting lovely
to see how nice he was getting. And we all thought you were so happy."
Thus the perplexed Susie. And Vivian found herself utterly unable to
explain to that happy little heart, on the brink of marriage, why she
had refused her brother.

Miss Orella was even harder to satisfy. "It's not as if you were a
foolish changeable young girl, my dear. And you've known Morton all
your life--he was no stranger to you. It breaks my heart, Vivian.
Can't you reconsider?"

The girl shook her head.

"I'm awfully sorry, Miss Orella. Please believe that I did it for the
best--and that it was very hard for me, too."

"But, Vivian! What can be the reason? I don't think you understand
what a beautiful influence you have on the boy. He has improved so,
since he has been here. And he was going to get a position here in
town--he told me so himself--and really settle down. And now he's
_gone_. Just off and away, as he used to be--and I never shall feel
easy about him again."

Miss Orella was frankly crying; and it wrung the girl's heart to know
the pain she was causing; not only to Morton, and to herself, but to
these others.

Susie criticised her with frankness.

"I know you think you are right, Vivian, you always do--you and that
conscience of yours. But I really think you had gone too far to draw
back, Jimmie saw him that night he went away--and he said he looked
awfully. And he really was changed so--beginning to be so thoroughly
nice. Whatever was the matter? I think you ought to tell me, Vivian,
I'm his sister, and--being engaged and all--perhaps I could straighten
it out."

And she was as nearly angry as her sunny nature allowed, when her
friend refused to give any reason, beyond that she thought it right.

Her aunt did not criticise, but pleaded. "It's not too late, I'm sure,
Vivian. A word from you would bring him back in a moment. Do speak it,
Vivian--do! Put your pride in your pocket, child, and don't lose a
lifetime's happiness for some foolish quarrel."

Miss Orella, like Susie, was at present sure that marriage must mean a
lifetime's happiness. And Vivian looked miserably from one to the other
of these loving women-folk, and could not defend herself with the truth.

Mrs. Pettigrew took up the cudgels for her. She was not going to have
her favorite grandchild thus condemned and keep silence. "Anybody'd
think Vivian had married the man and then run away with another one!"
she said tartly. "Pity if a girl can't change her mind before
marrying--she's held down pretty close afterward. An engagement isn't
a wedding, Orella Elder."

"But you don't consider the poor boy's feelings in the least, Mrs.
Pettigrew."

"No, I don't," snapped the old lady. "I consider the poor girl's. I'm
willing to bet as much as you will that his feelings aren't any worse
than hers. If _he'd_ changed his mind and run off and left _her_, I
warrant you two wouldn't have been so hard on him."

Evading this issue, Miss Orella wiped her eyes, and said: "Heaven
knows where he is now. And I'm afraid he won't write--he never did
write much, and now he's just heartbroken. I don't know as I'd have
seen him at all if I hadn't been awake and heard him rushing
downstairs. You've no idea how he suffers."

"I don't see as the girl's to blame that he hadn't decency enough to
say good-bye to the aunt that's been a mother to him; or to write to
her, as he ought to. A person don't need to forget _all_ their duty
because they've got the mitten."

Vivian shrank away from them all. Her heart ached intolerably.
She had not realized how large a part in her life this constant
admiration and attention had become. She missed the outward
agreeableness, and the soft tide of affection, which had risen
more and more warmly about her. From her earliest memories she
had wished for affection--affection deep and continuous, tender
and with full expression. She had been too reserved to show her
feeling, too proud by far to express it, but under that delicate
reticence of hers lay always that deep longing to love and to be
loved wholly.

Susie had been a comfort always, in her kittenish affection and
caressing ways, but Susie was doubly lost, both in her new absorption
and now in this estrangement.

Then, to bring pain to Miss Orella, who had been so kind and sweet to
her from earliest childhood, to hurt her so deeply, now, to mingle in
her cup of happiness this grief and anxiety, made the girl suffer
keenly. Jimmie, of course, was able to comfort Susie. He told her it
was no killing matter anyhow, and that Morton would inevitably console
himself elsewhere. "He'll never wear the willow for any girl, my dear.
Don't you worry about him."

Also, Mr. Dykeman comforted Miss Orella, not only with wise words, but
with his tender sympathy an