 was fortunately unheard by his aunt, who popped
in again at this moment, dragging Dr. Hale with her. Dr. Bellair
smiled quietly to herself.

"I wouldn't tell him what I wanted him for, or he wouldn't have come,
I'm sure--doctors are so funny," said Miss Elder, breathlessly, "but
here he is. Now, Dr. Hale, here's a foolish boy who won't listen to
reason, and I'm real worried about him. I want you to look at his
throat."

Dr. Hale glanced briefly at Morton's angry face.

"The patient seems to be of age, Miss Elder; and, if you'll excuse me,
does not seem to have authorized this call."

"My affectionate family are bound to have me an invalid," Morton
explained. "I'm in imminent danger of hot baths, cold presses, mustard
plasters, aconite, belladonna and quinine--and if I can once reach my
hat--"

He sidled to the door and fled in mock terror.

"Thank you for your good intentions, Miss Elder," Dr. Hale remarked
drily. "You can bring water to the horse, but you can't make him drink
it, you see."

"Now that that young man has gone we might have a game of whist," Mrs.
Pettigrew suggested, looking not ill-pleased.

"For which you do not need me in the least," and Dr. Hale was about to
leave, but Dr. Bellair stopped him.

"Don't be an everlasting Winter woodchuck, Dick! Sit down and play; do
be good. I've got to see old Mrs. Graham yet; she refuses to go to
sleep without it--knowing I'm so near. By by."

Mrs. Pettigrew insisted on playing with Miss Elder, so Vivian had the
questionable pleasure of Dr. Hale as a partner. He was an expert, used
to frequent and scientific play, and by no means patient with the
girl's mistakes.

He made no protest at a lost trick, but explained briefly between
hands what she should have remembered and how the cards lay, till she
grew quite discouraged.

Her game was but mediocre, played only to oblige; and she never could
see why people cared so much about a mere pastime. Pride came to her
rescue at last; the more he criticised, the more determined she grew
to profit by all this advice; but her mind would wander now and then
to Morton, to his young life so largely wasted, it appeared, and to
what hope might lie before him. Could she be the help and stimulus he
seemed to think? How much did he mean by asking her to help him?

"Why waste a thirteenth trump on your partner's thirteenth card?" Dr.
Hale was asking.

She flushed a deep rose color and lifted appealing eyes to him.

"Do forgive me; my mind was elsewhere."

"Will you not invite it to return?" he suggested drily.

He excused himself after a few games, and the girl at last was glad to
have him go. She wanted to be alone with her thoughts.

Mrs. Pettigrew, sitting unaccountably late at her front window,
watched the light burn steadily in the small office at the opposite
corner. Presently she saw a familiar figure slip in there, and, after
a considerable stay, come out quietly, cross the street, and let
himself in at their door.

"Huh!" said Mrs. Pettigrew.




CHAPTER VII.

SIDE LIGHTS.

      High shines the golden shield in front,
          To those who are not blind;
              And clear and bright
              In all men's sight,
          The silver shield behind.

      In breadth and sheen each face is seen;
          How tall it is, how wide;
              But its thinness shows
              To only those
          Who stand on either side.


Theophile wept aloud in the dining-room, nursing one hand in the
other, like a hurt monkey.

Most of the diners had departed, but Professor Toomey and Mr. Cuthbert
still lingered about Miss Susie's corner, to the evident displeasure
of Mr. Saunders, who lingered also.

Miss Susie smiled upon them all; and Mr. Saunders speculated endlessly
as to whether this was due to her general friendliness of disposition,
to an interest in pleasing her aunt's boarders, to personal preference,
or, as he sometimes imagined, to a desire to tease him.

Morton was talking earnestly with Vivian at the other end of the
table, from which the two angular waitresses had some time since
removed the last plate. One of them opened the swing door a crack and
thrust her head in.

"He's burnt his hand," she said, "and his Ma's out. We don't dare go
near him." Both of these damsels professed great terror of the poor
boy, though he was invariably good natured, and as timid as a rabbit.

"Do get the doctor!" cried Susie, nervously; she never felt at ease
with Theophile.

"Dr. Bellair, I fear, is not in her office," Professor Toomey
announced. "We might summon Dr. Hale."

"Nonsense!" said Mr. Cuthbert, rising heavily. "He's a great baby,
that's all. Here! Quit that howling and show me your hand!"

He advanced upon Theophile, who fled toward Vivian. Morton rose in her
defence. "Get out!" he said, "Go back to the kitchen. There's nothing
the matter with you."

"Wait till you get burned, and see if you think it's nothing," Jimmy
Saunders remarked with some acidity. He did not like Mr. Elder. "Come
here youngster, let me see it."

But the boy was afraid of all of them, and cowered in a corner, still
bawling. "Stop your noise," Mr. Cut