t the children. Mrs. MacAdoo is exceptionally
stupid about children, I do think. She doesn't think Christine's
telling them stories about things to frighten them is any harm,--says
they'll outgrow it. And anybody who knows anything of infant
psychology knows how dangerous it is to frighten children. And yet, of
course, to be perfectly fair, I wouldn't want a nurse-maid to dictate
to me about my child. It is out of the question--absolutely. Why, it
would destroy the mother's influence and authority altogether!
And--come to think of it--I suppose a trained nurse-maid would have
views of her own, and they might conflict with the mother's--

Now, where I have got to so far,--it is beautiful, thinking things out
clearly,--we want our children taken care of by ladies, honourable,
intelligent, educated, refined, and specially trained for the
business. I'm quite certain about that. Like Jessie, for instance. She
is just born for it,--always did love children, and knew how to manage
them from the time she was a little girl. And she's studying all the
science of it and practising in the kindergarten,--on the same kind of
children, too. Jessie is the ideal. It is really wonderful to see her
with them. They love her, and they do what she says, too; but she
never seems to be making them do anything: they just do it. Those
MacAdoos behave very much better with her than they do with their
mother. I believe most of the children do, for that matter. Except
little Cassie Wells. She has the most devoted mother I ever saw. It is
a lesson to us all. She never lets her out of her sight, I do
believe. Often comes to the kindergarten, just to be with her. And,
you see, Cassie just depends on her for everything; and nobody else
can do anything with her. It is beautiful,--such absolute dependence
and absorption. Yes, as I said, Jessie is the ideal. But, then, Jessie
is not a nurse-maid, and never would be.

Of course, if there was any way that Jessie could have the children
with her and have her way with them, as she does in the
kindergarten--But you can't do that with little children,--you cannot
separate the child from its mother! When they are older, they go to
school, of course; and, when they are older yet, they go to college,
and so on. But the little child needs its mother every hour. And, as
its mother cannot possibly give it every hour, we have to have the
nurse-maid. If mothers had no other claims, then, of course, you would
have the highest ideal relation. Cassie Wells's mother has given up
everything else. She doesn't go out with her husband at all. Says that
society has no claim beside that of the child. Of course, he stays at
home with her--mostly.

I'm sure a man ought to value his wife's society more than any other,
especially when she is such a devoted mother. She takes all the
periodicals about children, and reads all the books; and then she
modifies it all to suit her particular child. I never knew any mother
so conscientiously given up to the care of a child. She really talks
of nothing else. And, when that child is sick,--and she is extremely
delicate and always having dangerous illnesses,--her mother is simply
glued to her bedside: they can't drag her away. It is a pity that the
child is not better material; for she isn't particularly bright, nor
very well behaved, I think. But, then, her mother is doing everything
that can be done.

Jessie says that child is being mothered too much,--that she needs
more freedom and an impartial outside management. But, then, Jessie is
a good deal of a theorist; and, after all, she isn't a mother. Nothing
can really equal the mother's care for her own child! Still, we simply
can't do it,--all of us,--as families increase. We owe something to
our husbands, I am sure; and we have our social duties; and our
health is not always equal to such a strain. No, the mother must have
help; and that means the nurse-maid. It's no use talking about Jessie.
Even if she would do it, there's not enough of her to go around! We
never can expect that "faculty with children" in everybody: they
simply don't have it. Most girls don't care much for children, nor
know anything about them. Of course, after they become mothers, it is
different. Then it all comes to them.

Now, if nurse-maids could be mothers first-- But I argued that out
before. If they were, they wouldn't be mothers of our children; and
motherhood only teaches how to do what is best for one's own children.
Besides, we couldn't hire them then, because we would not separate
mothers from their own children; and, if they had their children and
ours, too, they would not treat them fairly. And we would not want
them brought up with ours, either. No, they've got to be "maids,"
that's sure.

Now the average young girl does not know or care much about children.
Therefore, she has to be trained. (What a comfort it is to be really
logical!) And, as there is no place to train them now, we have got to
make a place. It all comes round to the training school for
nurse-maids. That's the logical outcome.

Again, since we must have private nurse-maids under our
orders,--r