 the beauty and comfort of theirs. Also, we really thought some things
were right, or at least unavoidable, which we could readily see would be
repugnant to them, and therefore did not discuss. Again there was much
of our world's life which we, being used to it, had not noticed as
anything worth describing. And still further, there was about these
women a colossal innocence upon which many of the things we did say had
made no impression whatever.

I am thus explicit about it because it shows how unexpectedly strong
was the impression made upon Ellador when she at last entered our
civilization.

She urged me to be patient, and I was patient. You see, I loved her so
much that even the restrictions she so firmly established left me much
happiness. We were lovers, and there is surely delight enough in that.

Do not imagine that these young women utterly refused "the Great New
Hope," as they called it, that of dual parentage. For that they had
agreed to marry us, though the marrying part of it was a concession
to our prejudices rather than theirs. To them the process was the holy
thing--and they meant to keep it holy.

But so far only Celis, her blue eyes swimming in happy tears, her
heart lifted with that tide of race-motherhood which was their supreme
passion, could with ineffable joy and pride announce that she was to
be a mother. "The New Motherhood" they called it, and the whole country
knew. There was no pleasure, no service, no honor in all the land that
Celis might not have had. Almost like the breathless reverence with
which, two thousand years ago, that dwindling band of women had watched
the miracle of virgin birth, was the deep awe and warm expectancy with
which they greeted this new miracle of union.

All mothers in that land were holy. To them, for long ages, the approach
to motherhood has been by the most intense and exquisite love and
longing, by the Supreme Desire, the overmastering demand for a child.
Every thought they held in connection with the processes of maternity
was open to the day, simple yet sacred. Every woman of them placed
motherhood not only higher than other duties, but so far higher that
there were no other duties, one might almost say. All their wide mutual
love, all the subtle interplay of mutual friendship and service,
the urge of progressive thought and invention, the deepest religious
emotion, every feeling and every act was related to this great central
Power, to the River of Life pouring through them, which made them the
bearers of the very Spirit of God.

Of all this I learned more and more--from their books, from talk,
especially from Ellador. She was at first, for a brief moment, envious
of her friend--a thought she put away from her at once and forever.

"It is better," she said to me. "It is much better that it has not come
to me yet--to us, that is. For if I am to go with you to your country,
we may have 'adventures by sea and land,' as you say [and as in truth we
did], and it might not be at all safe for a baby. So we won't try again,
dear, till it is safe--will we?"

This was a hard saying for a very loving husband.

"Unless," she went on, "if one is coming, you will leave me behind. You
can come back, you know--and I shall have the child."

Then that deep ancient chill of male jealousy of even his own progeny
touched my heart.

"I'd rather have you, Ellador, than all the children in the world. I'd
rather have you with me--on your own terms--than not to have you."

This was a very stupid saying. Of course I would! For if she wasn't
there I should want all of her and have none of her. But if she went
along as a sort of sublimated sister--only much closer and warmer than
that, really--why I should have all of her but that one thing. And I
was beginning to find that Ellador's friendship, Ellador's comradeship,
Ellador's sisterly affection, Ellador's perfectly sincere love--none
the less deep that she held it back on a definite line of reserve--were
enough to live on very happily.

I find it quite beyond me to describe what this woman was to me. We talk
fine things about women, but in our hearts we know that they are very
limited beings--most of them. We honor them for their functional powers,
even while we dishonor them by our use of it; we honor them for their
carefully enforced virtue, even while we show by our own conduct how
little we think of that virtue; we value them, sincerely, for the
perverted maternal activities which make our wives the most comfortable
of servants, bound to us for life with the wages wholly at our own
decision, their whole business, outside of the temporary duties of such
motherhood as they may achieve, to meet our needs in every way. Oh, we
value them, all right, "in their place," which place is the home, where
they perform that mixture of duties so ably described by Mrs. Josephine
Dodge Daskam Bacon, in which the services of "a mistress" are carefully
specified. She is a very clear writer, Mrs. J. D. D. Bacon, and
understands her subject--from her own point of view. But--that
combination of industries, while convenient, and in a way economical,
does not 