o not," said Mrs. Pettigrew. "Young! She's not so young as you
are--nothing like--never was!"

He threw back his head and laughed his queer laugh, which looked so
uproarious and made so little noise.

"She certainly is a charmer, whatever her age may be," he continued.

"Glad you think so, Mr. Skee. It may be time you lost a fourth!"

"Lost a fourth? What in the--Hesperides!"

"If you can't guess what, you needn't ask me!" said the lady, with
some tartness. "But for my own part I prefer the Apaches. Good
afternoon, Mr. Skee."

She betook herself to her room with unusual promptness, and refused to
be baited forth by any kind of offered amusement.

"It's right thoughtful of Andy Dykeman, gettin' up this entertainment
for Mrs. St. Cloud, isn't it, Mrs. Elder?" Thus Mr. Skee to Miss
Orella a little later.

"I don't think it is Mr. Dykeman's idea at all," she told him. "It's
those boys over there. They are all wild about her, quite naturally."
She gave a little short sigh. "If Dr. Hale were at home I doubt if he
would encourage it."

"I'm pretty sure he wouldn't, Ma'am. He's certainly down on the fair
sex, even such a peacherino as this one. But with Andy, now, it's
different. He is a man of excellent judgment."

"I guess all men's judgment is pretty much alike in some ways," said
Miss Orella, oracularly. She seemed busy and constrained, and Mr. Skee
drifted off and paid court as best he might to Dr. Bellair.

"Charmed to find you at home, Ma'am," he said; "or shall I say at
office?"

"Call it what you like, Mr. Skee; it's been my home for a good many
years now."

"It's a mighty fine thing for a woman, livin' alone, to have a
business, seems to me," remarked the visitor.

"It's a fine thing for any woman, married or single, to my mind," she
answered. "I wish I could get Vivian Lane started in that kindergarten
she talks about."

"There's kids enough, and goodness knows they need a gardener! What's
lackin'? House room?"

"She thinks she's not really competent. She has no regular
certificate, you see. Her parents would never let go of her long
enough," the doctor explained.

"Some parents _are_ pretty graspin', ain't they? To my mind, Miss
Vivian would be a better teacher than lots of the ticketed ones. She's
got the natural love of children."

"Yes, and she has studied a great deal. She just needs an impetus."

"Perhaps if she thought there was 'a call' she might be willing. I
doubt if the families here realize what they're missin'. Aint there
some among your patients who could be stirred up a little?"

The doctor thought there were, and he suggested several names from his
apparently unlimited acquaintance.

"I believe in occupation for the young. It takes up their minds," said
Mr. Skee, and departed with serenity. He strolled over to Dr. Hale's
fence and leaned upon it, watching the preparations. Mr. Dykeman, in
his shirt-sleeves, stood about offering suggestions, while the young
men swarmed here and there with poles and stepladders, hanging Chinese
lanterns.

"Hello, Elmer; come in and make yourself useful," called Mr. Dykeman.

"I'll come in, but I'll be switched if I'll be useful," he replied,
laying a large hand on the fence and vaulting his long legs over it
with an agility amazing in one of his alleged years. "You all are sure
putting yourself out for this occasion. Is it somebody's birthday?"

"No; it's a get-up of these youngsters. They began by wanting Mrs. St.
Cloud to come over to tea--afternoon tea--and now look at this!"

"Did she misunderstand the invitation as bad as that?"

"O, no; just a gradual change of plan. One thing leads to another, you
know. Here, Archie! That bush won't hold the line. Put it on the
willow."

"I see," said Mr. Skee; "and, as we're quotin' proverbs, I might
remark that 'While the cat's away the mice will play.'"

Mr. Dykeman smiled. "It's rather a good joke on Hale, isn't it?"

"Would be if he should happen to come home--and find this hen-party
on." They both chuckled.

"I guess he's good for a week yet," said Mr. Dykeman. "Those medical
associations do a lot of talking. Higher up there, George--a good
deal higher."

He ran over to direct the boys, and Mr. Skee, hands behind him,
strolled up and down the garden, wearing a meditative smile. He and
Andrew Dykeman had been friends for many long years.

Dr. Bellair used her telephone freely after Mr. Skee's departure,
making notes and lists of names. Late in the afternoon she found
Vivian in the hall.

"I don't see much of you these days, Miss Lane," she said.

The girl flushed. Since Mrs. St. Cloud's coming and their renewed
intimacy she had rather avoided the doctor, and that lady had kept
herself conspicuously out of the way.

"Don't call me Miss Lane; I'm Vivian--to my friends."

"I hope you count me a friend?" said Dr. Bellair, gravely.

"I do, Doctor, and I'm proud to. But so many things have been
happening lately," she laughed, a little nervously. "The truth is, I'm
really ashamed to talk to you; I'm so lazy."

"That's exactly what I wanted to speak about. Aren't you ready to
begin that little school of yours?"

"I'd like to--I should, r