s I have demanded a
better housemaid for some time; but the supply is not forthcoming. So
now I mean to think it out, and see if I cannot find a way to the
invention, discovery, or manufacture of a better nurse-maid. And I
mean to be very clear and logical in my thinking about it, so as to
come out in the end with proof. I want to prove what is the matter
with the nurse-maid and how to make her better.

In the first place, what are my objections to the nurse-maid now? She
is careless and irresponsible. She is ignorant. She is ill-mannered.
She is often deceitful. I can't trust her.

Now it doesn't seem right that my child should be placed in the care
of an ignorant, ill-mannered, careless, and irresponsible
person,--even if not also untrustworthy,--does it? And it does not
relieve me of the care as it ought. I have to take care of the child
and the nurse-maid, too. What I want is a careful, responsible, wise,
well-mannered, honourable young girl. She ought to have special
training, too. It is really dreadful the way these ignorant girls
undertake to care for children. We need schools--training schools--and
diplomas. They could have practice classes on the children of the
poor--or in institutions; and yet that idea does not quite suit me,
either. My child is very individual and peculiar, and I don't believe
that practising on poor children would fit a nurse-maid to take care
of my child. But nice people would not want their children to be
practised on. They would have to take the poor ones: it would do them
good, anyway. They get no care now: their mothers are shockingly
ignorant and neglectful.

But, after all, I don't have to arrange the training schools. I only
know that she ought to have special training, and it ought to be
practical as well as theoretical; and that means practising on some
children somewhere, somehow. And they certainly would have to be poor,
because rich people would not let their children go to be practised
on. Maybe the poor people would not, either. Then it would have to be
orphans, I guess, combining nurse-training schools with orphan
asylums, and foundlings, too.

Well, now these nurse-maids would go to these training schools to
improve themselves, would they! Come to think of it, they only go to
nursing because they need the pay; and, even if the training schools
were free, they'd have to wait longer for their money. And, if they
got no more with training than without, they would not go, I'm afraid.
We should certainly have to pay them more trained than untrained. That
is perfectly logical, I'm sure. And, of course, that would be an
obstacle. If the training schools were not free, we should have to pay
them more yet,--enough to make it worth while to study the business of
caring for children. A short course might do,--six months or a year.

I've heard my mother say that she knew something about taking care of
children by the time Charley was born. But that was,--well, I was
eight, and I'm the third,--that was about twelve years. Oh, but she
wasn't in a training school! That would teach them faster. There would
be more children to practise on. Let me see: if it took my mother
twelve years to learn by practising on five children (Charley was the
fifth,--four children), how many children would it take to learn on in
one year? I'll get John to do that for me: I'm not good at figures.
Besides, it's different,--altogether different; for my mother was a
mother, so she knew how, to begin with, and nurse-maids are not.
So--to be strictly logical--it ought to take nurse-maids longer, I'm
afraid. The training schools will have to be free: I'm pretty sure of
that. And that means public or private endowment. We might as well
think it all out clearly.

Should it be added to the public-school system,--open to all
girls,--perhaps compulsory? Why not! Why wouldn't it be a good thing
for all girls to know something of the care of children? But could we
do that? Public schools are in politics; and that is awful. It would
take forever to get it that way; and my child wants a nurse-maid now!
Private endowment, I guess. So many rich people want to help the
masses. This would furnish employment, raise wages, and give us
nurse-maids. I'm sure it would appeal to any philanthropist.

Yes, some rich person must endow a training school for nurses,--that
sounds like hospitals; for child-nurses,--that sounds like
wet-nurses; for nurse-maids,--why need they be maids, though? Well, if
they were married, they would have children of their own of course,
and couldn't take care of ours. One would think, though, that
motherhood would give them more experience,--that they would know how
to care for children better. But, then, they wouldn't want to leave
their own children to take care of ours. And they couldn't take care
of them together. A mother would naturally do more for her own: she
wouldn't be fair.

A training school for nurse-maids. After all, "maid" does not mean
"unmarried" in this connection: it means simply "servant." And "nurse"
comes from the time when mere nursing was all that was required,--a
kind of a survival of old 