place with the girl, asked her to
undertake, as a special favor to her, the care of a class of rather
delicate children and young girls, in physical culture.

"Of course, Johanna Johnson is perfectly reliable and an excellent
teacher. I don't know a better; but their mothers will feel easier if
there's someone they know on the spot. You keep order and see that they
don't overdo. You'll have to go through their little exercises with
them, you see. I can't pay you anything for it; but it's only part of
two afternoons in the week--and it won't hurt you at any rate."

Vivian was more than glad to do something for the doctor, as well as to
extend her friendship among older children; also glad of anything to
further fill her time. To be alone and idle was to think and suffer.

Mrs. Pettigrew came in with Dr. Bellair one afternoon to watch the
exercises.

"I don't see but what Vivian does the tricks as well as any of them,"
said her grandmother.

"She does beautifully," the doctor answered. "And her influence with
the children is just what they needed. You see there's no romping and
foolishness, and she sets the pace--starts them off when they're shy.
I'm extremely obliged to her."

Mrs. Pettigrew watched Vivian's rhythmic movements, her erect carriage
and swinging step, her warm color and sparkling eyes, as she led the
line of happy youngsters and then turned upon the doctor.

"Huh!" she said.

At Susie's wedding, her childhood's friend was so far forgiven as to
be chief bridesmaid, but seeing the happiness before her opened again
the gates of her own pain.

When it was all over, and the glad young things were safely despatched
upon their ribboned way, when all the guests had gone, when Mrs. St.
Cloud felt the need of air and with the ever-gallant Mr. Skee set
forth in search of it, when Dr. Bellair had returned to her patients,
and Miss Orella to her own parlor, and was there consoled by Mr.
Dykeman for the loss of her niece, then Vivian went to her room--all
hers now, looking strangely large and empty--and set down among the
drifts of white tissue paper and scattered pins--alone.

She sank down on the bed, weary and sad at heart, for an hour of full
surrender long refused; meaning for once to let her grief have its
full way with her. But, just as on the night of her hurried engagement
she had been unable to taste to the full the happiness expected, so
now, surrender as she might, she could not feel the intensity of
expected pain.

She was lonely, unquestionably. She faced a lonely life. Six long,
heavy months had passed since she had made her decision.

"I am nearly twenty-seven now," she thought, resignedly. "I shall
never marry," and she felt a little shiver of the horror of last year.

But, having got this far in melancholy contemplation, her mind refused
to dwell upon it, but filled in spite of her with visions of merry
little ones, prancing in wavering circles, and singing their more
wavering songs. She was lonely and a single woman--but she had
something to do; and far more power to do it, more interest,
enthusiasm, and skill, than at the season's beginning.

She thought of Morton--of what little they had heard since his hurried
departure. He had gone farther West; they had heard of him in San
Francisco, they had heard of him, after some months, in the Klondike
region, then they had heard no more. He did not write. It seemed hard to
so deeply hurt his aunt for what was no fault of hers; but Morton had
never considered her feelings very deeply, his bitter anger, his
hopelessness, his desperate disappointment, blinding him to any pain
but his own.

But her thoughts of him failed to rouse any keen distinctive sorrow.
They rambled backward and forward, from the boy who had been such a
trouble to his aunt, such a continuous disappointment and mortification;
to the man whose wooing, looked back upon at this distance, seemed far
less attractive to the memory than it had been at the time. Even his
honest attempt at improvement gave her but a feeling of pity, and though
pity is akin to love it is not always a near relation.

From her unresisting descent into wells of pain, which proved
unexpectedly shallow, the girl arose presently and quietly set to work
arranging the room in its new capacity as hers only.

From black and bitter agony to the gray tastelessness of her present
life was not an exciting change, but Vivian had more power in quiet
endurance than in immediate resistance, and set herself now in earnest
to fulfill the tasks before her.

This was March. She was planning an extension of her classes, the
employment of an assistant. Her work was appreciated, her school
increased. Patiently and steadily she faced her task, and found a
growing comfort in it. When summer came, Dr. Bellair again begged her
to help out in the plan of a girls' camp she was developing.

This was new work for Vivian, but her season in Mrs. Johnson's
gymnastic class had given her a fresh interest in her own body and the
use of it. That stalwart instructress, a large-boned, calm-eyed
Swedish woman, was to be the manager of the camp, and Vivian this
time