h doing?"

"There's a good bit of money to be made, if you mean that; that is, if
a fellow's a good salesman. I'm no slouch myself, when I feel in the
mood. But it's easy come, easy go, you see. And it's uncertain. There
are times like this, with nothing doing."

"I didn't mean money, altogether," said the girl meditatively, "but
the work itself; I don't see any future for you."

Morton was pleased with her interest. Reaching between his knees he
seized the edge of the small sofa and dragged it a little nearer,
quite unconscious that the act was distasteful to her.

Though twenty-five years old, Vivian was extremely young in many ways,
and her introspection had spent itself in tending the inner shrine of
his early image. That ikon was now jarringly displaced by this
insistent presence, and she could not satisfy herself yet as to
whether the change pleased or displeased her. Again and again his
manner antagonized her, but his visible devotion carried an undeniable
appeal, and his voice stirred the deep well of emotion in her heart.

"Look here, Vivian," he said, "you've no idea how it goes through me
to have you speak like that! You see I've been knocking around here
for all this time, and I haven't had a soul to take an interest. A
fellow needs the society of good women--like you."

It is an old appeal, and always reaches the mark. To any women it is a
compliment, and to a young girl, doubly alluring. As she looked at
him, the very things she most disliked, his too free manner, his
coarsened complexion, a certain look about the eyes, suddenly assumed
a new interest as proofs of his loneliness and lack of right
companionship. What Mrs. St. Cloud had told her of the ennobling
influence of a true woman, flashed upon her mind.

"You see, I had no mother," he said simply--"and Aunt Rella spoiled
me--." He looked now like the boy she used to know.

"Of course I ought to have behaved better," he admitted. "I was
ungrateful--I can see it now. But it did seem to me I couldn't stand
that town a day longer!"

She could sympathize with this feeling and showed it.

"Then when a fellow knocks around as I have so long, he gets to where
he doesn't care a hang for anything. Seeing you again makes a lot of
difference, Vivian. I think, perhaps--I could take a new start."

"Oh do! Do!" she said eagerly. "You're young enough, Morton. You can
do anything if you'll make up your mind to it."

"And you'll help me?"

"Of course I'll help you--if I can," said she.

A feeling of sincere remorse for wasted opportunities rose in the
young man's mind; also, in the presence of this pure-eyed girl, a
sense of shame for his previous habits. He walked to the window, his
hands in his pockets, and looked out blankly for a moment.

"A fellow does a lot of things he shouldn't," he began, clearing his
throat; she met him more than half way with the overflowing generosity
of youth and ignorance:

"Never mind what you've done, Morton--you're going to do differently
now! Susie'll be so proud of you--and Aunt Orella!"

"And you?" He turned upon her suddenly.

"Oh--I? Of course! I shall be very proud of my old friend."

She met his eyes bravely, with a lovely look of hope and courage, and
again his heart smote him.

"I hope you will," he said and straightened his broad shoulders
manfully.

"Morton Elder!" cried his aunt, bustling in with deep concern in her
voice, "What's this I hear about you're having a sore throat?"

"Nothing, I hope," said he cheerfully.

"Now, Morton"--Vivian showed new solicitude--"you know you have got a
sore throat; Susie told me."

"Well, I wish she'd hold her tongue," he protested. "It's nothing at
all--be all right in a jiffy. No, I won't take any of your fixings,
Auntie."

"I want Dr. Bellair to look at it anyhow," said his aunt, anxiously.
"She'll know if it's diphtheritic or anything. She's coming in."

"She can just go out again," he said with real annoyance. "If there's
anything I've no use for it's a woman doctor!"

"Oh hush, hush!" cried Vivian, too late.

"Don't apologize," said Dr. Bellair from her doorway. "I'm not in the
least offended. Indeed, I had rather surmised that that was your
attitude; I didn't come in to prescribe, but to find Mrs. Pettigrew."

"Want me?" inquired the old lady from her doorway. "Who's got a sore
throat?"

"Morton has," Vivian explained, "and he won't let Aunt Rella--why
where is she?"

Miss Elder had gone out as suddenly as she had entered.

"Camphor's good for sore throat," Mrs. Pettigrew volunteered. "Three
or four drops on a piece of sugar. Is it the swelled kind, or the kind
that smarts?"

"Oh--Halifax!" exclaimed Morton, disgustedly. "It isn't _any_ kind. I
haven't a sore throat."

"Camphor's good for cold sores; you have one of them anyhow," the old
lady persisted, producing a little bottle and urging it upon Morton.
"Just keep it wet with camphor as often as you think of it, and it'll
go away."

Vivian looked on, interested and sympathetic, but Morton put his hand
to his lip and backed away.

"If you ladies don't stop trying to doctor me, I'll clear out
to-morrow, so there!"

This appalling threat