ded by Mr. Skee.

"One of these happy family reunions, ma'am?" he asked with approving
interest. "If there's one thing I do admire, it's a happy surprise."

"'Tis some of a surprise," Mrs. Pettigrew admitted, and became rather
glum, in spite of Mr. Skee's undeniably entertaining conversation.

"Some sort of a fandango going on?" Morton asked after a few rather
stiff moments. "Don't let me interrupt! On with the dance! Let joy be
unconfined! And if she must"--he looked at Vivian, and went on
somewhat lamely--"dance, why not dance with me? May I have the
pleasure, Miss Lane?"

"Oh, no," cried Miss Orella, "we'd much rather be with you!"

"But I'd rather dance than talk, any time," said he, and crooked his
elbow to Vivian with an impressive bow.

Somewhat uncertain in her own mind, and unwilling to again disappoint
Fordham Greer, who had already lost one dance and was visibly waiting
for her in the hall, the girl hesitated; but Susie said, "Go on, give
him part of one. I'll tell Mr. Greer." So Vivian took Morton's
proffered arm and returned to the floor.

She had never danced with him in the old days; no special memory was
here to contrast with the present; yet something seemed vaguely wrong.
He danced well, but more actively than she admired, and during the
rest of the evening devoted himself to the various ladies with an air
of long usage.

She was glad when the dancing was over and he had finally departed for
his hotel, glad when Susie had at last ceased chattering and dropped
reluctantly to sleep.

For a long time she lay awake trying to straighten out things in her
mind and account to herself for the sense of vague confusion which
oppressed her.

Morton had come back! That was the prominent thing, of which she
repeatedly assured herself. How often she had looked forward to that
moment, and felt in anticipation a vivid joy. She had thought of it in
a hundred ways, always with pleasure, but never in this particular
way--among so many strangers.

It must be that which confused her, she thought, for she was extremely
sensitive to the attitude of those about her. She felt an unspoken
criticism of Morton on the part of her new friends in the house, and
resented it; yet in her own mind a faint comparison would obtrude
itself between his manners and those of Jimmie Saunders or Mr. Greer,
for instance. The young Scotchman she had seen regarding Morton with
an undisguised dislike, and this she inwardly resented, even while
herself disliking his bearing to his aunt--and to her grandmother.

It was all contradictory and unsatisfying, and she fell asleep saying
over to herself, "He has come back! He has come back!" and trying to
feel happy.

Aunt Orella was happy at any rate. She would not rest until her
beloved nephew was installed in the house, practically turning out Mr.
Gibbs in order to accommodate him. Morton protested, talked of
business and of having to go away at any time; and Mr. Gibbs, who
still "mealed" with them, secretly wished he would.

But Morton did not go away. It was a long time since he had been petted
and waited on, and he enjoyed it hugely, treating his aunt with a
serio-comic affection that was sometimes funny, sometimes disagreeable.

At least Susie found it so. Her first surprise over, she fell back on
a fund of sound common sense, strengthened by present experience, and
found a good deal to criticise in her returned brother. She was so
young when he left, and he had teased her so unmercifully in those
days, that her early memories of him were rather mixed in sentiment,
and now he appeared, not as the unquestioned idol of a manless family
in a well-nigh manless town, but as one among many; and of those many
several were easily his superiors.

He was her brother, and she loved him, of course; but there were so
many wanting to be "brothers" if not more, and they were so much more
polite! Morton petted, patronized and teased her, and she took it all
in good part, as after the manner of brothers, but his demeanor with
other people was not to her mind.

His adoring aunt, finding no fault whatever with this well-loved nephew,
lavished upon him the affection of her unused motherhood, and he seemed
to find it a patent joke, open to everyone, that she should be so fond.

To this and, indeed, to his general walk and conversation, Mrs.
Pettigrew took great exception.

"Fine boy--Rella's nephew!" she said to Dr. Bellair late one night
when, seeing a light over her neighbor's transom, she dropped in for a
little chat. Conversation seemed easier for her here than in the
atmosphere of Bainville.

"Fine boy--eh? Nice complexion!"

Dr. Bellair was reading a heavy-weight book by a heavier-weight
specialist. She laid it down, took off her eyeglasses, and rubbed them.

"Better not kiss him," she said.

"I thought as much!" said Grandma. "I _thought_ as much! Huh!"

"Nice world, isn't it?" the doctor suggested genially.

"Nothing the matter with the world, that I know of," her visitor
answered.

"Nice people, then--how's that?"

"Nothing the matter with the people but foolishness--plain
foolishness. Good land! Shall we _never_ lea