es anybody. Why, they
are the best friends of the children--a boy doesn't have half a chance
that hasn't a dog to play with!"

"And the girls?" asked Somel.

"Oh--girls--why they like them too," he said, but his voice flatted a
little. They always noticed little things like that, we found later.

Little by little they wrung from us the fact that the friend of man,
in the city, was a prisoner; was taken out for his meager exercise on
a leash; was liable not only to many diseases but to the one destroying
horror of rabies; and, in many cases, for the safety of the citizens,
had to go muzzled. Jeff maliciously added vivid instances he had known
or read of injury and death from mad dogs.

They did not scold or fuss about it. Calm as judges, those women were.
But they made notes; Moadine read them to us.

"Please tell me if I have the facts correct," she said. "In your
country--and in others too?"

"Yes," we admitted, "in most civilized countries."

"In most civilized countries a kind of animal is kept which is no longer
useful--"

"They are a protection," Terry insisted. "They bark if burglars try to
get in."

Then she made notes of "burglars" and went on: "because of the love
which people bear to this animal."

Zava interrupted here. "Is it the men or the women who love this animal
so much?"

"Both!" insisted Terry.

"Equally?" she inquired.

And Jeff said, "Nonsense, Terry--you know men like dogs better than
women do--as a whole."

"Because they love it so much--especially men. This animal is kept shut
up, or chained."

"Why?" suddenly asked Somel. "We keep our father cats shut up because
we do not want too much fathering; but they are not chained--they have
large grounds to run in."

"A valuable dog would be stolen if he was let loose," I said. "We put
collars on them, with the owner's name, in case they do stray. Besides,
they get into fights--a valuable dog might easily be killed by a bigger
one."

"I see," she said. "They fight when they meet--is that common?" We
admitted that it was.

"They are kept shut up, or chained." She paused again, and asked,
"Is not a dog fond of running? Are they not built for speed?" That we
admitted, too, and Jeff, still malicious, enlightened them further.

"I've always thought it was a pathetic sight, both ways--to see a man or
a woman taking a dog to walk--at the end of a string."

"Have you bred them to be as neat in their habits as cats are?" was the
next question. And when Jeff told them of the effect of dogs on sidewalk
merchandise and the streets generally, they found it hard to believe.

You see, their country was as neat as a Dutch kitchen, and as to
sanitation--but I might as well start in now with as much as I
can remember of the history of this amazing country before further
description.

And I'll summarize here a bit as to our opportunities for learning it.
I will not try to repeat the careful, detailed account I lost; I'll just
say that we were kept in that fortress a good six months all told, and
after that, three in a pleasant enough city where--to Terry's infinite
disgust--there were only "Colonels" and little children--no young women
whatever. Then we were under surveillance for three more--always with a
tutor or a guard or both. But those months were pleasant because we were
really getting acquainted with the girls. That was a chapter!--or will
be--I will try to do justice to it.

We learned their language pretty thoroughly--had to; and they learned
ours much more quickly and used it to hasten our own studies.

Jeff, who was never without reading matter of some sort, had two little
books with him, a novel and a little anthology of verse; and I had one
of those pocket encyclopedias--a fat little thing, bursting with facts.
These were used in our education--and theirs. Then as soon as we were up
to it, they furnished us with plenty of their own books, and I went in
for the history part--I wanted to understand the genesis of this miracle
of theirs.

And this is what happened, according to their records.

As to geography--at about the time of the Christian era this land had
a free passage to the sea. I'm not saying where, for good reasons. But
there was a fairly easy pass through that wall of mountains behind us,
and there is no doubt in my mind that these people were of Aryan stock,
and were once in contact with the best civilization of the old world.
They were "white," but somewhat darker than our northern races because
of their constant exposure to sun and air.

The country was far larger then, including much land beyond the pass,
and a strip of coast. They had ships, commerce, an army, a king--for at
that time they were what they so calmly called us--a bi-sexual race.

What happened to them first was merely a succession of historic
misfortunes such as have befallen other nations often enough. They
were decimated by war, driven up from their coastline till finally the
reduced population, with many of the men killed in battle, occupied this
hinterland, and defended it for years, in the mountain passes. Where it
was open to any possible attack from below they strengthened the n