t's no wages, of course--and no recommendation, when you leave like
that--but what else can a girl do, if she's honest?"

So Diantha learned, made friends and laid broad foundations.

The excellence of her cocking was known to many, thanks to the weekly
"entertainments." No one refused. No one regretted acceptance. Never had
Mrs. Porne enjoyed such a sense of social importance.

All the people she ever knew called on her afresh, and people she
never knew called on her even more freshly. Not that she was directly
responsible for it. She had not triumphed cruelly over her less happy
friends; nor had she cried aloud on the street corners concerning her
good fortune. It was not her fault, nor, in truth anyone's. But in a
community where the "servant question" is even more vexed than in
the country at large, where the local product is quite unequal to the
demand, and where distance makes importation an expensive matter, the
fact of one woman's having, as it appeared, settled this vexed question,
was enough to give her prominence.

Mrs. Ellen A. Dankshire, President of the Orchardina Home and Culture
Club, took up the matter seriously.

"Now Mrs. Porne," said she, settling herself vigorously into a
comfortable chair, "I just want to talk the matter over with you, with a
view to the club. We do not know how long this will last--"

"Don't speak of it!" said Mrs. Porne.

"--and it behooves us to study the facts while we have them."

"So much is involved!" said little Mrs. Ree, the Corresponding
Secretary, lifting her pale earnest face with the perplexed fine lines
in it. "We are all so truly convinced of the sacredness of the home
duties!"

"Well, what do you want me to do?" asked their hostess.

"We must have that remarkable young woman address our club!" Mrs.
Dankshire announced. "It is one case in a thousand, and must be
studied!"

"So noble of her!" said Mrs. Ree. "You say she was really a
school-teacher? Mrs. Thaddler has put it about that she is one of these
dreadful writing persons--in disguise!"

"O no," said Mrs. Porne. "She is perfectly straightforward about it, and
had the best of recommendations. She was a teacher, but it didn't agree
with her health, I believe."

"Perhaps there is a story to it!" Mrs. Ree advanced; but Mrs. Dankshire
disagreed with her flatly.

"The young woman has a theory, I believe, and she is working it out. I
respect her for it. Now what we want to ask you, Mrs. Porne, is this: do
you think it would make any trouble for you--in the household relations,
you know--if we ask her to read a paper to the Club? Of course we do not
wish to interfere, but it is a remarkable opportunity--very. You know
the fine work Miss Lucy Salmon has done on this subject; and Miss
Frances Kellor. You know how little data we have, and how great, how
serious, a question it is daily becoming! Now here is a young woman of
brains and culture who has apparently grappled with the question; her
example and influence must not be lost! We must hear from her. The
public must know of this."

"Such an ennobling example!" murmured Mrs. Ree. "It might lead numbers
of other school-teachers to see the higher side of the home duties!"

"Furthermore," pursued Mrs. Dankshire, "this has occured to me. Would it
not be well to have our ladies bring with them to the meeting the more
intelligent of their servants; that they might hear and see the--the
dignity of household labor--so ably set forth?

"Isn't it--wouldn't that be a--an almost dangerous experiment?" urged
Mrs. Ree; her high narrow forehead fairly creped with little wrinkles:
"She might--say something, you know, that they might--take advantage
of!"

"Nonsense, my dear!" replied Mrs. Dankshire. She was very fond of Mrs.
Ree, but had small respect for her judgment. "What could she say? Look
at what she does! And how beautifully--how perfectly--she does it! I
would wager now--_may_ I try an experiment Mrs. Porne?" and she stood
up, taking out her handkerchief.

"Certainly," said Mrs. Porne, "with pleasure! You won't find any!"

Mrs. Dankshire climbed heavily upon a carefully selected chair and
passed her large clean plain-hemmed handkerchief across the top of a
picture.

"I knew it!" she proclaimed proudly from her eminence, and showed the
cloth still white. "That," she continued in ponderous descent, "that is
Knowledge, Ability and Conscience!"

"I don't see how she gets the time!" breathed Mrs. Ree, shaking her head
in awed amazement, and reflecting that she would not dare trust Mrs.
Dankshire's handkerchief on her picture tops.

"We must have her address the Club," the president repeated. "It will do
worlds of good. Let me see--a paper on--we might say 'On the True Nature
of Domestic Industry.' How does that strike you, Mrs. Ree?"

"Admirable!" said Mrs. Ree. "So strong! so succinct."

"That certainly covers the subject," said Mrs. Porne. "Why don't you ask
her?"

"We will. We have come for that purpose. But we felt it right to ask you
about it first," said Mrs. Dankshire.

"Why I have no control over Miss Bell's movements, outside of working
hours," answered Mrs. Porne. "And I don't se