ovement
of her life.

Change she desired, she longed for, but dreaded the unknown.

Slowly she followed the long garden path, paused lingeringly by that
rough garden seat, went through and closed the gate.




CHAPTER III.

THE OUTBREAK

      There comes a time
      After white months of ice--
      Slow months of ice--long months of ice--
      There comes a time when the still floods below
      Rise, lift, and overflow--
      Fast, far they go.


Miss Orella sat in her low armless rocker, lifting perplexed, patient
eyes to look up at Dr. Bellair.

Dr. Bellair stood squarely before her, stood easily, on broad-soled,
low-heeled shoes, and looked down at Miss Orella; her eyes were
earnest, compelling, full of hope and cheer.

"You are as pretty as a girl, Orella," she observed irrelevantly.

Miss Orella blushed. She was not used to compliments, even from a
woman, and did not know how to take them.

"How you talk!" she murmured shyly.

"I mean to talk," continued the doctor, "until you listen to reason."

Reason in this case, to Dr. Bellair's mind, lay in her advice to Miss
Elder to come West with her--to live.

"I don't see how I can. It's--it's such a Complete Change."

Miss Orella spoke as if Change were equivalent to Sin, or at least to
Danger.

"Do you good. As a physician, I can prescribe nothing better. You need
a complete change if anybody ever did."

"Why, Jane! I am quite well."

"I didn't say you were sick. But you are in an advanced stage of
_arthritis deformans_ of the soul. The whole town's got it!"

The doctor tramped up and down the little room, freeing her mind.

"I never saw such bed-ridden intellects in my life! I suppose it was
so when I was a child--and I was too young to notice it. But surely
it's worse now. The world goes faster and faster every day, the people
who keep still get farther behind! I'm fond of you, Rella. You've got
an intellect, and a conscience, and a will--a will like iron. But you
spend most of your strength in keeping yourself down. Now, do wake up
and use it to break loose! You don't have to stay here. Come out to
Colorado with me--and Grow."

Miss Elder moved uneasily in her chair. She laid her small embroidery
hoop on the table, and straightened out the loose threads of silk, the
doctor watching her impatiently.

"I'm too old," she said at length.

Jane Bellair laughed aloud, shortly.

"Old!" she cried. "You're five years younger than I am. You're only
thirty-six! Old! Why, child, your life's before you--to make."

"You don't realize, Jane. You struck out for yourself so young--and
you've grown up out there--it seems to be so different--there."

"It is. People aren't afraid to move. What have you got here you so
hate to leave, Rella?"

"Why, it's--Home."

"Yes. It's home--now. Are you happy in it?"

"I'm--contented."

"Don't you deceive yourself, Rella. You are not contented--not by a
long chalk. You are doing your duty as you see it; and you've kept
yourself down so long you've almost lost the power of motion. I'm
trying to galvanize you awake--and I mean to do it."

"You might as well sit down while you're doing it, anyway," Miss Elder
suggested meekly.

Dr. Bellair sat down, selecting a formidable fiddle-backed chair, the
unflinching determination of its widely-placed feet being repeated by
her own square toes. She placed herself in front of her friend and
leaned forward, elbows on knees, her strong, intelligent hands clasped
loosely.

"What have you got to look forward to, Rella?"

"I want to see Susie happily married--"

"I said _you_--not Susie."

"Oh--me? Why, I hope some day Morton will come back----"

"I said _you_--not Morton."

"Why I--you know I have friends, Jane--and neighbors. And some day,
perhaps--I mean to go abroad."

"Are you scolding Aunt Rella again, Dr. Bellair. I won't stand it."
Pretty Susie stood in the door smiling.

"Come and help me then," the doctor said, "and it won't sound so much
like scolding."

"I want Mort's letter--to show to Viva," the girl answered, and
slipped out with it.

She sat with Vivian on the stiff little sofa in the back room; the
arms of the two girls were around one another, and they read the
letter together. More than six months had passed since his last one.

It was not much of a letter. Vivian took it in her own hands and went
through it again, carefully. The "Remember me to Viva--unless she's
married," at the end did not seem at all satisfying. Still it might
mean more than appeared--far more. Men were reticent and proud, she
had read. It was perfectly possible that he might be concealing deep
emotion under the open friendliness. He was in no condition to speak
freely, to come back and claim her. He did not wish her to feel bound
to him. She had discussed it with Mrs. St. Cloud, shrinkingly,
tenderly, led on by tactful, delicate, questions, by the longing of
her longing heart for expression and sympathy.

"A man who cannot marry must speak of marriage--it is not honorable,"
her friend had told her.

"Couldn't he--write to me--as a friend?"

And the low-voiced lady had explained with a little sigh that men
thought little of f