 that there had to be something, so I took the
bull by the horns--the cow, I should say!--and asked Somel.

"I want to find some flaw in all this perfection," I told her flatly.
"It simply isn't possible that three million people have no faults. We
are trying our best to understand and learn--would you mind helping us
by saying what, to your minds, are the worst qualities of this unique
civilization of yours?"

We were sitting together in a shaded arbor, in one of those
eating-gardens of theirs. The delicious food had been eaten, a plate of
fruit still before us. We could look out on one side over a stretch of
open country, quietly rich and lovely; on the other, the garden, with
tables here and there, far apart enough for privacy. Let me say right
here that with all their careful "balance of population" there was no
crowding in this country. There was room, space, a sunny breezy freedom
everywhere.

Somel set her chin upon her hand, her elbow on the low wall beside her,
and looked off over the fair land.

"Of course we have faults--all of us," she said. "In one way you
might say that we have more than we used to--that is, our standard
of perfection seems to get farther and farther away. But we are not
discouraged, because our records do show gain--considerable gain.

"When we began--even with the start of one particularly noble mother--we
inherited the characteristics of a long race-record behind her. And they
cropped out from time to time--alarmingly. But it is--yes, quite six
hundred years since we have had what you call a 'criminal.'

"We have, of course, made it our first business to train out, to breed
out, when possible, the lowest types."

"Breed out?" I asked. "How could you--with parthenogenesis?"

"If the girl showing the bad qualities had still the power to appreciate
social duty, we appealed to her, by that, to renounce motherhood. Some
of the few worst types were, fortunately, unable to reproduce. But if
the fault was in a disproportionate egotism--then the girl was sure
she had the right to have children, even that hers would be better than
others."

"I can see that," I said. "And then she would be likely to rear them in
the same spirit."

"That we never allowed," answered Somel quietly.

"Allowed?" I queried. "Allowed a mother to rear her own children?"

"Certainly not," said Somel, "unless she was fit for that supreme task."

This was rather a blow to my previous convictions.

"But I thought motherhood was for each of you--"

"Motherhood--yes, that is, maternity, to bear a child. But education is
our highest art, only allowed to our highest artists."

"Education?" I was puzzled again. "I don't mean education. I mean by
motherhood not only child-bearing, but the care of babies."

"The care of babies involves education, and is entrusted only to the
most fit," she repeated.

"Then you separate mother and child!" I cried in cold horror, something
of Terry's feeling creeping over me, that there must be something wrong
among these many virtues.

"Not usually," she patiently explained. "You see, almost every woman
values her maternity above everything else. Each girl holds it close
and dear, an exquisite joy, a crowning honor, the most intimate, most
personal, most precious thing. That is, the child-rearing has come to
be with us a culture so profoundly studied, practiced with such subtlety
and skill, that the more we love our children the less we are willing to
trust that process to unskilled hands--even our own."

"But a mother's love--" I ventured.

She studied my face, trying to work out a means of clear explanation.

"You told us about your dentists," she said, at length, "those quaintly
specialized persons who spend their lives filling little holes in other
persons' teeth--even in children's teeth sometimes."

"Yes?" I said, not getting her drift.

"Does mother-love urge mothers--with you--to fill their own children's
teeth? Or to wish to?"

"Why no--of course not," I protested. "But that is a highly specialized
craft. Surely the care of babies is open to any woman--any mother!"

"We do not think so," she gently replied. "Those of us who are the
most highly competent fulfill that office; and a majority of our girls
eagerly try for it--I assure you we have the very best."

"But the poor mother--bereaved of her baby--"

"Oh no!" she earnestly assured me. "Not in the least bereaved. It is her
baby still--it is with her--she has not lost it. But she is not the only
one to care for it. There are others whom she knows to be wiser. She
knows it because she has studied as they did, practiced as they did, and
honors their real superiority. For the child's sake, she is glad to have
for it this highest care."

I was unconvinced. Besides, this was only hearsay; I had yet to see the
motherhood of Herland.




CHAPTER 8. The Girls of Herland


At last Terry's ambition was realized. We were invited, always
courteously and with free choice on our part, to address general
audiences and classes of girls.

I remember the first time--and how careful we were about our clothes,
and our amateur barbering. Terry, in particular, was f