 home." The
Foote girls had never entertained a high opinion of extensive culture.

"I don't see any use in a girl's studying so much," said Miss Rebecca
with decision.

"Nor I," agreed Miss Josie. "Men don't like learned women."

"They don't seem to always like those that aren't learned, either,"
remarked Miss Rebecca with a pleasant sense of retribution for that
remark about "homely ones."

The tall girl in brown had seen the two faces at the windows opposite,
and had held her shoulders a little straighter as she turned the corner.

"Nine years this Summer since Morton Elder went West," murmured Miss
Josie, reminiscently. "I shouldn't wonder if Vivian had stayed single
on his account."

"Nonsense!" her sister answered sharply. "She's not that kind. She's
not popular with men, that's all. She's too intellectual."

"She ought to be in the library instead of Sue Elder," Miss Rebecca
suggested. "She's far more competent. Sue's a feather-headed little
thing."

"She seems to give satisfaction so far. If the trustees are pleased
with her, there's no reason for you to complain that I see," said Miss
Rebecca with decision.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vivian Lane waited at the library desk with an armful of books to take
home. She had her card, her mother's and her father's--all utilized.
Her grandmother kept her own card--and her own counsel.

The pretty assistant librarian, withdrawing herself with some emphasis
from the unnecessary questions of a too gallant old gentleman, came to
attend her.

"You _have_ got a load," she said, scribbling complex figures with one
end of her hammer-headed pencil, and stamping violet dates with the
other. She whisked out the pale blue slips from the lid pockets,
dropped them into their proper openings in the desk and inserted the
cards in their stead with delicate precision.

"Can't you wait a bit and go home with me?" she asked. "I'll help you
carry them."

"No, thanks. I'm not going right home."

"You're going to see your Saint--I know!" said Miss Susie, tossing her
bright head. "I'm jealous, and you know it."

"Don't be a goose, Susie! You know you're my very best friend,
but--she's different."

"I should think she was different!" Susie sharply agreed. "And you've
been 'different' ever since she came."

"I hope so," said Vivian gravely. "Mrs. St. Cloud brings out one's
very best and highest. I wish you liked her better, Susie."

"I like you," Susie answered. "You bring out my 'best and highest'--if
I've got any. She don't. She's like a lovely, faint, bright--bubble! I
want to prick it!"

Vivian smiled down upon her.

"You bad little mouse!" she said. "Come, give me the books."

"Leave them with me, and I'll bring them in the car." Susie looked
anxious to make amends for her bit of blasphemy.

"All right, dear. Thank you. I'll be home by that time, probably."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the street she stopped before a little shop where papers and
magazines were sold.

"I believe Father'd like the new Centurion," she said to herself, and
got it for him, chatting a little with the one-armed man who kept the
place. She stopped again at a small florist's and bought a little bag
of bulbs.

"Your mother's forgotten about those, I guess," said Mrs. Crothers, the
florist's wife, "but they'll do just as well now. Lucky you thought of
them before it got too late in the season. Bennie was awfully pleased
with that red and blue pencil you gave him, Miss Lane."

Vivian walked on. A child ran out suddenly from a gate and seized upon
her.

"Aren't you coming in to see me--ever?" she demanded.

Vivian stooped and kissed her.

"Yes, dear, but not to-night. How's that dear baby getting on?"

"She's better," said the little girl. "Mother said thank you--lots of
times. Wait a minute--"

The child fumbled in Vivian's coat pocket with a mischievous upward
glance, fished out a handful of peanuts, and ran up the path laughing
while the tall girl smiled down upon her lovingly.

A long-legged boy was lounging along the wet sidewalk. Vivian caught
up with him and he joined her with eagerness.

"Good evening, Miss Lane. Say--are you coming to the club to-morrow
night?"

She smiled cordially.

"Of course I am, Johnny. I wouldn't disappoint my boys for
anything--nor myself, either."

They walked on together chatting until, at the minister's house, she
bade him a cheery "good-night."

Mrs. St. Cloud was at the window pensively watching the western sky.
She saw the girl coming and let her in with a tender, radiant
smile--a lovely being in a most unlovely room.

There was a chill refinement above subdued confusion in that
Cambridge-Bainville parlor, where the higher culture of the second
Mrs. Williams, superimposed upon the lower culture of the first, as
that upon the varying tastes of a combined ancestry, made the place
somehow suggestive of excavations at Abydos.

It was much the kind of parlor Vivian had been accustomed to from
childhood, but Mrs. St. Cloud was of a type quite new to her. Clothed
in soft, clinging fabrics, always with a misty, veiled effect to them,
wearing pale amber, large, 