 naked darlings playing on short
velvet grass, clean-swept; or rugs as soft; or in shallow pools of
bright water; tumbling over with bubbling joyous baby laughter--it was a
view of infant happiness such as I had never dreamed.

The babies were reared in the warmer part of the country, and gradually
acclimated to the cooler heights as they grew older.

Sturdy children of ten and twelve played in the snow as joyfully as ours
do; there were continuous excursions of them, from one part of the land
to another, so that to each child the whole country might be home.

It was all theirs, waiting for them to learn, to love, to use, to serve;
as our own little boys plan to be "a big soldier," or "a cowboy," or
whatever pleases their fancy; and our little girls plan for the kind of
home they mean to have, or how many children; these planned, freely and
gaily with much happy chattering, of what they would do for the country
when they were grown.

It was the eager happiness of the children and young people which first
made me see the folly of that common notion of ours--that if life was
smooth and happy, people would not enjoy it.

As I studied these youngsters, vigorous, joyous, eager little creatures,
and their voracious appetite for life, it shook my previous ideas so
thoroughly that they have never been re-established. The steady level of
good health gave them all that natural stimulus we used to call "animal
spirits"--an odd contradiction in terms. They found themselves in an
immediate environment which was agreeable and interesting, and before
them stretched the years of learning and discovery, the fascinating,
endless process of education.

As I looked into these methods and compared them with our own, my
strange uncomfortable sense of race-humility grew apace.

Ellador could not understand my astonishment. She explained things
kindly and sweetly, but with some amazement that they needed explaining,
and with sudden questions as to how we did it that left me meeker than
ever.

I betook myself to Somel one day, carefully not taking Ellador. I did
not mind seeming foolish to Somel--she was used to it.

"I want a chapter of explanation," I told her. "You know my stupidities
by heart, and I do not want to show them to Ellador--she thinks me so
wise!"

She smiled delightedly. "It is beautiful to see," she told me, "this
new wonderful love between you. The whole country is interested, you
know--how can we help it!"

I had not thought of that. We say: "All the world loves a lover," but
to have a couple of million people watching one's courtship--and that a
difficult one--was rather embarrassing.

"Tell me about your theory of education," I said. "Make it short and
easy. And, to show you what puzzles me, I'll tell you that in our theory
great stress is laid on the forced exertion of the child's mind; we
think it is good for him to overcome obstacles."

"Of course it is," she unexpectedly agreed. "All our children do
that--they love to."

That puzzled me again. If they loved to do it, how could it be
educational?

"Our theory is this," she went on carefully. "Here is a young human
being. The mind is as natural a thing as the body, a thing that grows,
a thing to use and enjoy. We seek to nourish, to stimulate, to exercise
the mind of a child as we do the body. There are the two main divisions
in education--you have those of course?--the things it is necessary to
know, and the things it is necessary to do."

"To do? Mental exercises, you mean?"

"Yes. Our general plan is this: In the matter of feeding the mind,
of furnishing information, we use our best powers to meet the natural
appetite of a healthy young brain; not to overfeed it, to provide such
amount and variety of impressions as seem most welcome to each child.
That is the easiest part. The other division is in arranging a properly
graduated series of exercises which will best develop each mind; the
common faculties we all have, and most carefully, the especial faculties
some of us have. You do this also, do you not?"

"In a way," I said rather lamely. "We have not so subtle and highly
developed a system as you, not approaching it; but tell me more. As
to the information--how do you manage? It appears that all of you know
pretty much everything--is that right?"

This she laughingly disclaimed. "By no means. We are, as you soon found
out, extremely limited in knowledge. I wish you could realize what a
ferment the country is in over the new things you have told us; the
passionate eagerness among thousands of us to go to your country and
learn--learn--learn! But what we do know is readily divisible into
common knowledge and special knowledge. The common knowledge we have
long since learned to feed into the minds of our little ones with no
waste of time or strength; the special knowledge is open to all, as
they desire it. Some of us specialize in one line only. But most take up
several--some for their regular work, some to grow with."

"To grow with?"

"Yes. When one settles too close in one kind of work there is a tendency
to atrophy in the disused portions of the brain. We like to keep on