m she had not even seen. Her pursuance of what Mr. Skee announced
to his friends to be "one of these Platonic Friendships," did not
falter; neither did her interest in other relations less philosophic.
Mr. Dykeman's precipitate descent from the class of eligibles was more
of a disappointment to her than she would admit even to herself; his
firm, kind friendliness had given a sense of comfort, of achieved
content that her restless spirit missed.

But Dr. Hale, if he had been before inaccessible, had now become so
heavily fortified, so empanoplied in armor offensive and defensive,
that even Mrs. Pettigrew found it difficult to obtain speech with him.

That his best friend, so long supporting him in cheerful bachelorhood,
should have thus late laid down his arms, was bitterly resented. That
Mr. Skee, free lance of years standing, and risen victor from several
"stricken fields," should show signs of capitulation, annoyed him
further. Whether these feelings derived their intensity from another,
which he entirely refused to acknowledge, is matter for the
psychologist, and Dr. Hale avoided all psychologic self-examination.

With the boys he was always a hero. They admired his quiet strength
and the unbroken good nature that was always presented to those about
him, whatever his inner feelings.

Mr. Peters burst forth to the others one day, in tones of impassioned
admiration.

"By George, fellows," he said, "you know how nice Doc was last night?"

"Never saw him when he wasn't," said Archie.

"Don't interrupt Mr. Peters," drawled Percy. "He's on the brink of a
scientific discovery. Strange how these secrets of nature can lie
unrevealed about us so long--and then suddenly burst upon our ken!"

Mr. Peters grinned affably. "That's all right, but I maintain my
assertion; whatever the general attraction of our noble host, you'll
admit that on the special occasion of yesterday evening, which we
celebrated to a late hour by innocent games of cards--he was--as
usual--the soul of--of----"

"Affability?" suggested Percy.

"Precisely!" Peters admitted. "If there is a well-chosen word which
perfectly describes the manner of Dr. Richard Hale--it is affable!
Thank you, sir, thank you. Well, what I wish to announce, so that you
can all of you get down on your knees at once and worship, is that all
last evening he--had a toothache--a bad toothache!"

"My word!" said Archie, and remained silent.

"Oh, come now," Percy protested, "that's against nature. Have a
toothache and not _mention_ it? Not even mention it--without
exaggeration! Why Archimedes couldn't do that! Or--Sandalphon--or any
of them!"

"How'd you learn the facts, my son? Tell us that."

"Heard him on the 'phone making an appointment. 'Yes;' 'since noon
yesterday,' 'yes, pretty severe.' '11:30? You can't make it earlier?
All right.' I'm just mentioning it to convince you fellows that you
don't appreciate your opportunities. There was some exceptional Female
once--they said 'to know her was a liberal education.' What would you
call it to live with Dr. Hale?"

And they called it every fine thing they could think of; for these
boys knew better than anyone else, the effect of that association.

His patients knew him as wise, gentle, efficient, bringing a sense of
hope and assurance by the mere touch of that strong hand; his
professional associates in the town knew him as a good practitioner
and friend, and wider medical circles, readers of his articles in the
professional press had an even higher opinion of his powers.

Yet none of these knew Richard Hale. None saw him sitting late in his
office, the pages of his book unturned, his eyes on the red spaces of
the fire. No one was with him on those night tramps that left but an
hour or two of sleep to the long night, and made that sleep irresistible
from self-enforced fatigue. He had left the associations of his youth
and deliberately selected this far-off mountain town to build the life
he chose; and if he found it unsatisfying no one was the wiser.

His successive relays of boys, young fellows fresh from the East, coming
from year to year and going from year to year as business called them,
could and did give good testimony as to the home side of his character,
however. It was not in nature that they should speculate about him. As
they fell in love and out again with the facility of so many Romeos,
they discoursed among themselves as to his misogyny.

"He certainly has a grouch on women," they would admit. "That's the
one thing you can't talk to him about--shuts up like a clam. Of
course, he'll let you talk about your own feelings and experiences,
but you might as well talk to the side of a hill. I wonder what did
happen to him?"

They made no inquiry, however. It was reported that a minister's wife,
a person of determined character, had had the courage of her
inquisitiveness, and asked him once, "Why is it that you have never
married, Dr. Hale?" And that he had replied, "It is owing to my
dislike of the meddlesomeness of women." He lived his own life,
unquestioned, now more markedly withdrawn than ever, coming no more to
The Cottonwoods.

Eve