nitting work and marched off.

"Too bad she's so prejudiced and opinionated," said Miss Elder to
Susie, rather warmly. "I'm real fond of Mrs. Pettigrew, but when she
takes a dislike----"

Susie was so happy herself that she seemed to walk in an aura of rosy
light. Her Jimmie was so evidently the incarnation of every masculine
virtue and charm that he lent a reflected lustre to other men, even to
her brother. Because of her love for Jimmie, she loved Morton
better--loved everybody better. To have her only brother marry her
dearest friend was wholly pleasant to Susie.

It was not difficult to wring from Vivian a fair knowledge of how
things stood, for, though reserved by nature, she was utterly unused
to concealing anything, and could not tell an efficient lie if she
wanted to.

"Are you engaged or are you not, you dear old thing?" demanded Susie.

And Vivian admitted that there was "an understanding." But Susie
absolutely must not speak of it.

For a wonder she did not, except to Jimmie. But people seemed to make
up their minds on the subject with miraculous agreement. The general
interest in the manifold successes of Mrs. St. Cloud gave way to this
vivid personal interest, and it was discussed from two sides among
their whole circle of acquaintance.

One side thought that a splendid girl was being wasted, sacrificed,
thrown away, on a disagreeable, good-for-nothing fellow. The other
side thought the "interesting" Mr. Elder might have done better; they
did not know what he could see in her.

They, that vaguely important They, before whom we so deeply bow, were
also much occupied in their mind by speculations concerning Mr.
Dykeman and two Possibilities. One quite patently possible, even
probable, giving rise to the complacent "Why, anybody could see
that!" and the other a fascinatingly impossible Possibility of a sort
which allows the even more complacent "Didn't you? Why, I could see it
from the first."

Mr. Dykeman had been a leading citizen in that new-built town for some
ten years, which constituted him almost the Oldest Inhabitant. He was
reputed to be extremely wealthy, though he never said anything about
it, and neither his clothing nor his cigars reeked of affluence.
Perhaps nomadic chambermaids had spread knowledge of those
silver-backed appurtenances, and the long mirror. Or perhaps it was
not woman's gossip at all, but men's gossip, which has wider base, and
wider circulation, too.

Mr. Dykeman had certainly "paid attentions" to Miss Elder. Miss Elder
had undeniably brightened and blossomed most becomingly under these
attentions. He had danced with her, he had driven with her, he had
played piquet with her when he might have played whist. To be sure, he
did these things with other ladies, and had done them for years past,
but this really looked as if there might be something in it.

Mr. Skee, as Mr. Dykeman's oldest friend, was even questioned a little;
but it was not very much use to question Mr. Skee. His manner was not
repellant, and not in the least reserved. He poured forth floods of
information so voluminous and so varied that the recipient was rather
drowned than fed. So opinions wavered as to Mr. Dykeman's intentions.

Then came this lady of irresistible charm, and the unmarried citizens
of the place fell at her feet as one man. Even the married ones
slanted over a little.

Mr. Dykeman danced with her, more than he had with Miss Elder. Mr.
Dykeman drove with her, more than he had with Miss Elder. Mr. Dykeman
played piquet with her, and chess, which Miss Elder could not play.
And Miss Elder's little opening petals of ribbon and lace curled up
and withered away; while Mrs. St. Cloud's silken efflorescence, softly
waving and jewel-starred, flourished apace.

Dr. Bellair had asked Vivian to take a walk with her; and they sat
together, resting, on a high lonely hill, a few miles out of town.

"It's a great pleasure to see this much of you, Dr. Bellair," said the
girl, feeling really complimented.

"I'm afraid you won't think so, my dear, when you hear what I have to
say: what I _have_ to say."

The girl flushed a little. "Are you going to scold me about something?
Have I done anything wrong?" Her eyes smiled bravely. "Go on, Doctor.
I know it will be for my best good."

"It will indeed, dear child," said the doctor, so earnestly that
Vivian felt a chill of apprehension.

"I am going to talk to you 'as man to man' as the story books say; as
woman to woman. When I was your age I had been married three years."

Vivian was silent, but stole out a soft sympathetic hand and slipped it
into the older woman's. She had heard of this early-made marriage, also
early broken; with various dark comments to which she had paid no
attention.

Dr. Bellair was Dr. Bellair, and she had a reverential affection for
her.

There was a little silence. The Doctor evidently found it hard to
begin. "You love children, don't you, Vivian?"

The girl's eyes kindled, and a heavenly smile broke over her face.
"Better than anything in the world," she said.

"Ever think about them?" asked her friend, her own face whitening as she
spoke. "Think ab