rn anything!"

"Not till it's too late apparently," the doctor gloomily agreed,
turning slowly in her swivel chair. "That boy never was taught
anything to protect him. What did Rella know? Or for that matter, what
do any boys' fathers and mothers know? Nothing, you'd think. If they
do, they won't teach it to their children."

"Time they did!" said the old lady decidedly. "High time they did!
It's never too late to learn. I've learned a lot out of you and your
books, Jane Bellair. Interesting reading! I don't suppose you could
give an absolute opinion now, could you?"

"No," said Dr. Bellair gravely, "no, I couldn't; not yet, anyway."

"Well, we've got to keep our eyes open," Mrs. Pettigrew concluded.
"When I think of that girl of mine----"

"Yes--or any girl," the doctor added.

"You look out for any girl--that's your business; I'll look out for
mine--if I can."

Mrs. Pettigrew's were not the only eyes to scrutinize Morton Elder.
Through the peep-hole in the swing door to the kitchen, Jeanne Jeaune
watched him darkly with one hand on her lean chest.

She kept her watch on whatever went on in that dining-room, and on the
two elderly waitresses whom she had helped Miss Elder to secure when
the house filled up. They were rather painfully unattractive, but
seemed likely to stay where no young and pretty damsel could be
counted on for a year. Morton joked with perseverance about their
looks, and those who were most devoted to Susie seemed to admire his
wit, while Vivian's special admirers found it pointless in the
extreme.

"Your waitresses are the limit, Auntie," he said, "but the cook is all
to the good. Is she a plain cook or a handsome one?"

"Handsome is as handsome does, young man," Mrs. Pettigrew pointedly
replied. "Mrs. Jones is a first-class cook and her looks are neither
here nor there."

"You fill me with curiosity," he replied. "I must go out and make her
acquaintance. I always get solid with the cook; it's worth while."

The face at the peep-hole darkened and turned away with a bitter and
determined look, and Master Theophile was hastened at his work till his
dim intelligence wondered, and then blessed with an unexpected cookie.

Vivian, Morton watched and followed assiduously. She was much changed
from what he remembered--the young, frightened, slender girl he had
kissed under the lilac bushes, a kiss long since forgotten among many.

Perhaps the very number of his subsequent acquaintances during a
varied and not markedly successful career in the newer states made
this type of New England womanhood more marked. Girls he had known of
various sorts, women old and young had been kind to him, for Morton
had the rough good looks and fluent manner which easily find their way
to the good will of many female hearts; but this gentle refinement of
manner and delicate beauty had a novel charm for him.

Sitting by his aunt at meals he studied Vivian opposite, he watched
her in their few quiet evenings together, under the soft lamplight on
Miss Elder's beloved "center table;" and studied her continually in
the stimulating presence of many equally devoted men.

All that was best in him was stirred by her quiet grace, her reserved
friendliness; and the spur of rivalry was by no means wanting. Both
the girls had their full share of masculine attention in that busy
houseful, each having her own particular devotees, and the position of
comforter to the others.

Morton became openly devoted to Vivian, and followed her about, seeking
every occasion to be alone with her, a thing difficult to accomplish.

"I don't ever get a chance to see anything of you," he said. "Come on,
take a walk with me--won't you?"

"You can see me all day, practically," she answered. "It seems to me
that I never saw a man with so little to do."

"Now that's too bad, Vivian! Just because a fellow's out of a job for
a while! It isn't the first time, either; in my business you work
like--like anything, part of the time, and then get laid off. I work
hard enough when I'm at it."

"Do you like it--that kind of work?" the girl asked.

They were sitting in the family parlor, but the big hall was as usual
well occupied, and some one or more of the boarders always eager to come
in. Miss Elder at this moment had departed for special conference with
her cook, and Susie was at the theatre with Jimmie Saunders. Fordham
Greer had asked Vivian, as had Morton also, but she declined both on the
ground that she didn't like that kind of play. Mrs. Pettigrew, being
joked too persistently about her fondness for "long whist," had retired
to her room--but then, her room was divided from the parlor only by a
thin partition and a door with a most inefficacious latch.

"Come over here by the fire," said Morton, "and I'll tell you all
about it."

He seated himself on a sofa, comfortably adjacent to the fireplace,
but Vivian preferred a low rocker.

"I suppose you mean travelling--and selling goods?" he pursued. "Yes,
I like it. There's lots of change--and you meet people. I'd hate to be
shut up in an office."

"But do you--get anywhere with it? Is there any outlook for you?
Anything wort