f her office at the moment, with her usual clean and clear-starched
appearance. "I've been at it for eighteen hours, with only bites to
eat. Yes, all over; both doing well."

It was a source of deep self-congratulation to Dr. Bellair to watch
her friend grow young again in the new atmosphere. To Susie it
appeared somewhat preposterous, as her Aunt seems to her mind a
permanently elderly person; while to Mrs. Pettigrew it looked only
natural. "Rella's only a young thing anyway," was her comment. But
Jane Bellair marked and approved the added grace of each new gown, the
blossoming of lace and ribbon, the appearance of long-hoarded bits of
family jewelry, things held "too showy to wear" in Bainville, but
somehow quite appropriate here.

Vivian and Grandma made Miss Orella sit down at her own table head,
and bustled about in the pantry, bringing cheese and crackers, cake
and fruit; but the doctor poked her head through the swing door and
demanded meat.

"I don't want a refection, I want food," she said, and Jeanne
cheerfully brought her a plate of cold beef. She was much attached to
Dr. Bellair, for reasons many and good.

"What I like about this place," said Mrs. Pettigrew, surveying the
scene from the head of her table, "is that there's always something
going on."

"What I like about it," remarked Dr. Bellair, between
well-Fletcherized mouthfuls, "is that people have a chance to grow and
are growing."

"What I like," Mr. Dykeman looked about him, and paused in the middle
of a sentence, as was his wont; "is being beautifully taken care of
and made comfortable--any man likes that."

Miss Orella beamed upon him. Emboldened, he went on: "And what I like
most is the new, delightful"--he was gazing admiringly at her, and she
looked so embarrassed that he concluded with a wide margin of
safety--"friends I'm making."

Miss Orella's rosy flush, which had risen under his steady gaze, ebbed
again to her usual soft pink. Even her coldest critics, in the most
caustic Bainvillian circles, could never deny that she had "a good
complexion." New England, like old England, loves roses on the cheeks,
and our dry Western winds play havoc with them. But Miss Orella's
bloomed brighter than at home.

"It is pleasant," she said softly; "all this coming and going--and the
nice people--who stay." She looked at no one in particular, yet Mr.
Dykeman seemed pleased.

"There's another coming, I guess," remarked Grandma, as a carriage was
heard to stop outside, the gate slammed, and trunk-burdened steps
pounded heavily across the piazza. The bell rang sharply, Mr. Dykeman
opened the door, and the trunk came in first--a huge one, dumped
promptly on the hall floor.

Behind the trunk and the man beneath it entered a lady; slim, elegant,
graceful, in a rich silk dust coat and soft floating veils.

"My dear Miss Elder!" she said, coming forward; "and Vivian! Dear
Vivian! I thought you could put me up, somewhere, and told him to come
right here. O--and please--I haven't a bit of change left in my
purse--will you pay the man?"

"Well, if it isn't Mrs. St. Cloud," said Grandma, without any note of
welcome in her voice.

Mr. Dykeman paid the man; looked at the trunk, and paid him some more.
The man departed swearing softly at nothing in particular, and Mr.
Dykeman departed also to his own room.

Miss Orella's hospitable soul was much exercised. Refuse shelter to an
old acquaintance, a guest, however unexpected, she could not; yet she
had no vacant room. Vivian, flushed and excited, moved anew by her
old attraction, eagerly helped the visitor take off her wraps, Mrs.
Pettigrew standing the while, with her arms folded, in the doorway of
her room, her thin lips drawn to a hard line, as one intending to
repel boarders at any risk to life or limb. Dr. Bellair had returned
to her apartments at the first sound of the visitor's voice.

She, gracious and calm in the midst of confusion, sat in a wreath of
down-dropped silken wrappings, and held Vivian's hand.

"You dear child!" she said, "how well you look! What a charming place
this is. The doctors sent me West for my health; I'm on my way to
California. But when I found the train stopped here--I didn't know
that it did till I saw the name--I had them take my trunk right off,
and here I am! It is such a pleasure to see you all."

"Huh!" said Mrs. Pettigrew, and disappeared completely, closing the
door behind her.

"Anything will do, Miss Elder," the visitor went on. "I shall find a
hall bedroom palatial after a sleeping car; or a garret--anything!
It's only for a few days, you know."

Vivian was restraining herself from hospitable offers by remembering
that her room was also Susie's, and Miss Orella well knew that to give
up hers meant sleeping on a hard, short sofa in that all-too-public
parlor. She was hastily planning in her mind to take Susie in with her
and persuade Mrs. Pettigrew to harbor Vivian, somewhat deterred by
memories of the old lady's expression as she departed, when Mr.
Dykeman appeared at the door, suitcase in hand.

"I promised Hale I'd keep house for those fatherless boys, you know,"
he said. "In the mean