riendship with women. "I have tried, all my life,
to be a true and helpful friend to men, to such men as seemed worthy,
and they so often--misunderstood."

The girl, sympathetic and admiring, thought hotly of how other people
misunderstood this noble, lovely soul; how they even hinted that she
"tried to attract men," a deadly charge in Bainville.

"No," Mrs. St. Cloud had told her, "he might love you better than all
the world--yet not write to you--till he was ready to say 'come.' And,
of course, he wouldn't say anything in his letters to his aunt."

So Vivian sat there, silent, weaving frail dreams out of "remember me
to Viva--unless she's married." That last clause might mean much.

Dr. Bellair's voice sounded clear and insistent in the next room.

"She's trying to persuade Aunt Rella to go West!" said Susie.
"Wouldn't it be funny if she did!"

In Susie's eyes her Aunt's age was as the age of mountains, and also
her fixity. Since she could remember, Aunt Rella, always palely pretty
and neat, like the delicate, faintly-colored Spring flowers of New
England, had presided over the small white house, the small green
garden and the large black and white school-room. In her vacation she
sewed, keeping that quiet wardrobe of hers in exquisite order--and
also making Susie's pretty dresses. To think of Aunt Orella actually
"breaking up housekeeping," giving up her school, leaving Bainville,
was like a vision of trees walking.

To Dr. Jane Bellair, forty-one, vigorous, successful, full of new
plans and purposes, Miss Elder's life appeared as an arrested
girlhood, stagnating unnecessarily in this quiet town, while all the
world was open to her.

"I couldn't think of leaving Susie!" protested Miss Orella.

"Bring her along," said the doctor. "Best thing in the world for her!"

She rose and came to the door. The two girls make a pretty picture.
Vivian's oval face, with its smooth Madonna curves under the
encircling wreath of soft, dark plaits, and the long grace of her
figure, delicately built, yet strong, beside the pink, plump little
Susie, roguish and pretty, with the look that made everyone want to
take care of her.

"Come in here, girls," said the doctor. "I want you to help me. You're
young enough to be movable, I hope."

They cheerfully joined the controversy, but Miss Orella found small
support in them.

"Why don't you do it, Auntie!" Susie thought it an excellent joke. "I
suppose you could teach school in Denver as well as here. And you
could Vote! Oh, Auntie--to think of your Voting!"

Miss Elder, too modestly feminine, too inherently conservative even
to be an outspoken "Anti," fairly blushed at the idea.

"She's hesitating on your account," Dr. Bellair explained to the girl.
"Wants to see you safely married! I tell her you'll have a thousandfold
better opportunities in Colorado than you ever will here."

Vivian was grieved. She had heard enough of this getting married, and
had expected Dr. Bellair to hold a different position.

"Surely, that's not the only thing to do," she protested.

"No, but it's a very important thing to do--and to do right. It's a
woman's duty."

Vivian groaned in spirit. That again!

The doctor watched her understandingly.

"If women only did their duty in that line there wouldn't be so much
unhappiness in the world," she said. "All you New England girls sit
here and cut one another's throats. You can't possible marry, your
boys go West, you overcrowd the labor market, lower wages, steadily
drive the weakest sisters down till they--drop."

They heard the back door latch lift and close again, a quick, decided
step--and Mrs. Pettigrew joined them.

Miss Elder greeted her cordially, and the old lady seated herself in
the halo of the big lamp, as one well accustomed to the chair.

"Go right on," she said--and knitted briskly.

"Do take my side, Mrs. Pettigrew," Miss Orella implored her. "Jane
Bellair is trying to pull me up by the roots and transplant me to
Colorado."

"And she says I shall have a better chance to marry out there--and
ought to do it!" said Susie, very solemnly. "And Vivian objects to
being shown the path of duty."

Vivian smiled. Her quiet, rather sad face lit with sudden sparkling
beauty when she smiled.

"Grandma knows I hate that--point of view," she said. "I think men and
women ought to be friends, and not always be thinking about--that."

"I have some real good friends--boys, I mean," Susie agreed, looking
so serious in her platonic boast that even Vivian was a little
amused, and Dr. Bellair laughed outright.

"You won't have a 'friend' in that sense till you're fifty, Miss
Susan--if you ever do. There can be, there are, real friendships between
men and women, but most of that talk is--talk, sometimes worse.

"I knew a woman once, ever so long ago," the doctor continued
musingly, clasping her hands behind her head, "a long way from
here--in a college town--who talked about 'friends.' She was married.
She was a 'good' woman--perfectly 'good' woman. Her husband was not a
very good man, I've heard, and strangely impatient of her virtues. She
had a string of boys--college boys--always at