elibate, Jeff, and
under vows of obedience. These are just women, and mothers, and where
there's motherhood you don't find sisterhood--not much."

"No, sir--they'll scrap," agreed Terry. "Also we mustn't look for
inventions and progress; it'll be awfully primitive."

"How about that cloth mill?" Jeff suggested.

"Oh, cloth! Women have always been spinsters. But there they
stop--you'll see."

We joked Terry about his modest impression that he would be warmly
received, but he held his ground.

"You'll see," he insisted. "I'll get solid with them all--and play one
bunch against another. I'll get myself elected king in no time--whew!
Solomon will have to take a back seat!"

"Where do we come in on that deal?" I demanded. "Aren't we Viziers or
anything?"

"Couldn't risk it," he asserted solemnly. "You might start a
revolution--probably would. No, you'll have to be beheaded, or
bowstrung--or whatever the popular method of execution is."

"You'd have to do it yourself, remember," grinned Jeff. "No husky black
slaves and mamelukes! And there'd be two of us and only one of you--eh,
Van?"

Jeff's ideas and Terry's were so far apart that sometimes it was all
I could do to keep the peace between them. Jeff idealized women in the
best Southern style. He was full of chivalry and sentiment, and all
that. And he was a good boy; he lived up to his ideals.

You might say Terry did, too, if you can call his views about women
anything so polite as ideals. I always liked Terry. He was a man's man,
very much so, generous and brave and clever; but I don't think any of
us in college days was quite pleased to have him with our sisters. We
weren't very stringent, heavens no! But Terry was "the limit." Later
on--why, of course a man's life is his own, we held, and asked no
questions.

But barring a possible exception in favor of a not impossible wife, or
of his mother, or, of course, the fair relatives of his friends, Terry's
idea seemed to be that pretty women were just so much game and homely
ones not worth considering.

It was really unpleasant sometimes to see the notions he had.

But I got out of patience with Jeff, too. He had such rose-colored halos
on his womenfolks. I held a middle ground, highly scientific, of course,
and used to argue learnedly about the physiological limitations of the
sex.

We were not in the least "advanced" on the woman question, any of us,
then.

So we joked and disputed and speculated, and after an interminable
journey, we got to our old camping place at last.

It was not hard to find the river, just poking along that side till we
came to it, and it was navigable as far as the lake.

When we reached that and slid out on its broad glistening bosom, with
that high gray promontory running out toward us, and the straight white
fall clearly visible, it began to be really exciting.

There was some talk, even then, of skirting the rock wall and seeking
a possible footway up, but the marshy jungle made that method look not
only difficult but dangerous.

Terry dismissed the plan sharply.

"Nonsense, fellows! We've decided that. It might take months--we haven't
got the provisions. No, sir--we've got to take our chances. If we get
back safe--all right. If we don't, why, we're not the first explorers to
get lost in the shuffle. There are plenty to come after us."

So we got the big biplane together and loaded it with our scientifically
compressed baggage: the camera, of course; the glasses; a supply of
concentrated food. Our pockets were magazines of small necessities, and
we had our guns, of course--there was no knowing what might happen.

Up and up and up we sailed, way up at first, to get "the lay of the
land" and make note of it.

Out of that dark green sea of crowding forest this high-standing spur
rose steeply. It ran back on either side, apparently, to the far-off
white-crowned peaks in the distance, themselves probably inaccessible.

"Let's make the first trip geographical," I suggested. "Spy out the
land, and drop back here for more gasoline. With your tremendous speed
we can reach that range and back all right. Then we can leave a sort of
map on board--for that relief expedition."

"There's sense in that," Terry agreed. "I'll put off being king of
Ladyland for one more day."

So we made a long skirting voyage, turned the point of the cape which
was close by, ran up one side of the triangle at our best speed, crossed
over the base where it left the higher mountains, and so back to our
lake by moonlight.

"That's not a bad little kingdom," we agreed when it was roughly drawn
and measured. We could tell the size fairly by our speed. And from what
we could see of the sides--and that icy ridge at the back end--"It's a
pretty enterprising savage who would manage to get into it," Jeff said.

Of course we had looked at the land itself--eagerly, but we were too
high and going too fast to see much. It appeared to be well forested
about the edges, but in the interior there were wide plains, and
everywhere parklike meadows and open places.

There were cities, too; that I insisted. It looked--well, it looked like
any other country--