
learning, always."

"What do you study?"

"As much as we know of the different sciences. We have, within our
limits, a good deal of knowledge of anatomy, physiology, nutrition--all
that pertains to a full and beautiful personal life. We have our botany
and chemistry, and so on--very rudimentary, but interesting; our own
history, with its accumulating psychology."

"You put psychology with history--not with personal life?"

"Of course. It is ours; it is among and between us, and it changes with
the succeeding and improving generations. We are at work, slowly and
carefully, developing our whole people along these lines. It is glorious
work--splendid! To see the thousands of babies improving, showing
stronger clearer minds, sweeter dispositions, higher capacities--don't
you find it so in your country?"

This I evaded flatly. I remembered the cheerless claim that the human
mind was no better than in its earliest period of savagery, only better
informed--a statement I had never believed.

"We try most earnestly for two powers," Somel continued. "The two that
seem to us basically necessary for all noble life: a clear, far-reaching
judgment, and a strong well-used will. We spend our best efforts, all
through childhood and youth, in developing these faculties, individual
judgment and will."

"As part of your system of education, you mean?"

"Exactly. As the most valuable part. With the babies, as you may have
noticed, we first provide an environment which feeds the mind without
tiring it; all manner of simple and interesting things to do, as soon
as they are old enough to do them; physical properties, of course, come
first. But as early as possible, going very carefully, not to tax the
mind, we provide choices, simple choices, with very obvious causes and
consequences. You've noticed the games?"

I had. The children seemed always playing something; or else, sometimes,
engaged in peaceful researches of their own. I had wondered at first
when they went to school, but soon found that they never did--to their
knowledge. It was all education but no schooling.

"We have been working for some sixteen hundred years, devising better
and better games for children," continued Somel.

I sat aghast. "Devising games?" I protested. "Making up new ones, you
mean?"

"Exactly," she answered. "Don't you?"

Then I remembered the kindergarten, and the "material" devised by
Signora Montessori, and guardedly replied: "To some extent." But most
of our games, I told her, were very old--came down from child to child,
along the ages, from the remote past.

"And what is their effect?" she asked. "Do they develop the faculties
you wish to encourage?"

Again I remembered the claims made by the advocates of "sports," and
again replied guardedly that that was, in part, the theory.

"But do the children LIKE it?" I asked. "Having things made up and set
before them that way? Don't they want the old games?"

"You can see the children," she answered. "Are yours more
contented--more interested--happier?"

Then I thought, as in truth I never had thought before, of the dull,
bored children I had seen, whining; "What can I do now?"; of the little
groups and gangs hanging about; of the value of some one strong spirit
who possessed initiative and would "start something"; of the children's
parties and the onerous duties of the older people set to "amuse the
children"; also of that troubled ocean of misdirected activity we call
"mischief," the foolish, destructive, sometimes evil things done by
unoccupied children.

"No," said I grimly. "I don't think they are."

The Herland child was born not only into a world carefully prepared,
full of the most fascinating materials and opportunities to learn, but
into the society of plentiful numbers of teachers, teachers born and
trained, whose business it was to accompany the children along that, to
us, impossible thing--the royal road to learning.

There was no mystery in their methods. Being adapted to children it was
at least comprehensible to adults. I spent many days with the little
ones, sometimes with Ellador, sometimes without, and began to feel a
crushing pity for my own childhood, and for all others that I had known.

The houses and gardens planned for babies had in them nothing to
hurt--no stairs, no corners, no small loose objects to swallow, no
fire--just a babies' paradise. They were taught, as rapidly as
feasible, to use and control their own bodies, and never did I see such
sure-footed, steady-handed, clear-headed little things. It was a joy
to watch a row of toddlers learning to walk, not only on a level floor,
but, a little later, on a sort of rubber rail raised an inch or two
above the soft turf or heavy rugs, and falling off with shrieks of
infant joy, to rush back to the end of the line and try again. Surely we
have noticed how children love to get up on something and walk along it!
But we have never thought to provide that simple and inexhaustible form
of amusement and physical education for the young.

Water they had, of course, and could swim even before they walked. If I
feared at first the effects of a too int