t help other people!" she used to add.

Flitting in and out of Dr. Hale's at all hours, she noted that he had
a fondness for music, with a phenomenal incapacity to produce any. He
encouraged his boys to play on any and every instrument the town
afforded, and to sing, whether they could or not; and seemed never to
weary of their attempts, though far from satisfied with the product.

"Huh!" said Mrs. Pettigrew.

Vivian could play, "Well enough to know better," she said, and seldom
touched the piano. She had a deep, full, contralto voice, and a fair
degree of training. But she would never make music unless she felt
like it--and in this busy life, with so many people about her, she had
always refused.

Grandma meditated.

She selected an evening when most of the boarders were out at some
entertainment, and selfishly begged Vivian to stay at home with
her--said she was feeling badly and wanted company. Grandma so seldom
wanted anything that Vivian readily acquiesced; in fact, she was quite
worried about her, and asked Dr. Bellair if she thought anything was
the matter.

"She has seemed more quiet lately," said that astute lady, "and I've
noticed her going in to Dr. Hale's during office hours. But perhaps
it's only to visit with him."

"Are you in any pain, Grandma?" asked the girl, affectionately.
"You're not sick, are you?"

"O, no--I'm not sick," said the old lady, stoutly. "I'm just--well, I
felt sort of lonesome to-night--perhaps I'm homesick."

As she had never shown the faintest sign of any feeling for their
deserted home, except caustic criticism and unfavorable comparison,
Vivian rather questioned this theory, but she began to think there was
something in it when her grandmother, sitting by the window in the
spring twilight, began to talk of how this time of year always made
her think of her girlhood.

"Time for the March peepers at home. It's early here, and no peepers
anywhere that I've heard. 'Bout this time we'd be going to evening
meeting. Seems as if I could hear that little old organ--and the
singing!"

"Hadn't I better shut that window," asked Vivian. "Won't you get cold?"

"No, indeed," said her grandmother, promptly. "I'm plenty warm--I've
got this little shawl around me. And it's so soft and pleasant out."

It was soft and pleasant, a delicious May-like night in March, full of
spring scents and hints of coming flowers. On the dark piazza across the
way she could make out a still figure sitting alone, and the thump of
Balzac's heel as he struggled with his intimate enemies told her who it
was.

"Come Ye Disconsolate," she began to hum, most erroneously. "How does
that go, Vivian? I was always fond of it, even if I can't sing any
more'n a peacock."

Vivian hummed it and gave the words in a low voice.

"That's good!" said the old lady. "I declare, I'm kinder hungry for
some of those old hymns. I wish you'd play me some of 'em, Vivian."

So Vivian, glad to please her, woke the yellow keys to softer music
than they were accustomed to, and presently her rich, low voice, sure,
easy, full of quiet feeling, flowed out on the soft night air.

Grandma was not long content with the hymns. "I want some of those
old-fashioned songs--you used to know a lot of 'em. Can't you do that
'Kerry Dance' of Molloy's, and 'Twickenham Ferry'--and 'Lauriger
Horatius?'"

Vivian gave her those, and many another, Scotch ballads, English songs
and German Lieder--glad to please her grandmother so easily, and quite
unconscious of a dark figure which had crossed the street and come
silently to sit on the farthest corner of their piazza.

Grandma, meanwhile, watched him, and Vivian as well, and then, with the
most unsuspected suddenness, took to her bed. Sciatica, she said. An
intermittent pain that came upon her so suddenly she couldn't stand up.
She felt much better lying down. And Dr. Hale must attend her
unceasingly.

This unlooked for overthrow of the phenomenally active old lady was a
great blow to Mr. Skee; he showed real concern and begged to be
allowed to see her.

"Why not?" said Mrs. Pettigrew. "It's nothing catching."

She lay, high-pillowed, as stiff and well arranged as a Knight Templar
on a tombstone, arrayed for the occasion in a most decorative little
dressing sack and ribbony night-cap.

"Why, ma'am," said Mr. Skee, "it's highly becomin' to you to be sick.
It leads me to hope it's nothin' serious."

She regarded him enigmatically. "Is Dr. Hale out there, or Vivian?"
she inquired in a low voice.

"No, ma'am--they ain't," he replied, after a glance in the next room.

Then he bent a penetrating eye upon her. She met it unflinchingly, but
as his smile appeared and grew, its limitless widening spread
contagion, and her calm front was broken.

"Elmer Skee," said she, with sudden fury, "you hold your tongue!"

"Ma'am!" he replied, "I have said nothin'--and I don't intend to. But
if the throne of Europe was occupied by you, Mrs. Pettigrew, we would
have a better managed world."

He proved a most agreeable and steady visitor during this period of
confinement, and gave her full accounts of all that went on outside,
with occasional irrele