eally," said the girl. "But, somehow, I don't
know how to set about it."

"I've been making some inquiries," said the doctor. "There are six or
eight among my patients that you could count on--about a dozen young
ones. How many could you handle?"

"Oh, I oughtn't to have more than twenty in any case. A dozen would be
plenty to begin with. Do you think I _could_ count on them--really?"

"I tell you what I'll do," her friend offered; "I'll take you around
and introduce you to any of them you don't know. Most of 'em come here
to the dances. There's Mrs. Horsford and Mrs. Blake, and that little
Mary Jackson with the twins. You'll find they are mostly friends."

"You are awfully kind," said the girl. "I wish"--her voice took on a
sudden note of intensity--"I do wish I were strong, like you, Dr.
Bellair."

"I wasn't very strong--at your age--my child. I did the weakest of
weak things--"

Vivian was eager to ask her what it was, but a door opened down one
side passage and the doctor quietly disappeared down the other, as
Mrs. St. Cloud came out.

"I thought I heard your voice," she said. "And Miss Elder's, wasn't
it?"

"No; it was Dr. Bellair."

"A strong character, and a fine physician, I understand. I'm sorry she
does not like me."

Mrs. St. Cloud's smile made it seem impossible that anyone should
dislike her.

Vivian could not, however, deny the fact, and was not diplomatic enough
to smooth it over, which her more experienced friend proceeded to do.

"It is temperamental," she said gently. "If we had gone to school
together we would not have been friends. She is strong, downright,
progressive; I am weaker, more sensitive, better able to bear than to
do. You must find her so stimulating."

"Yes," the girl said. "She was talking to me about my school."

"Your school?"

"Didn't you know I meant to have a sort of kindergarten? We planned it
even before starting; but Miss Elder seemed to need me at first, and
since then--things--have happened----"

"And other things will happen, dear child! Quite other and different
things."

The lady's smile was bewitching. Vivian flushed slowly under her gaze.

"Oh, my dear, I watched you dancing together! You don't mind my
noticing, do you?"

Her voice was suddenly tender and respectful. "I do not wish to
intrude, but you are very dear to me. Come into my room--do--and tell
me what to wear to-night."

Mrs. St. Cloud's clothes had always been a delight to Vivian. They
were what she would have liked to wear--and never quite have dared,
under the New England fear of being "too dressy." Her own beauty was
kept trimly neat, like a closed gentian.

Her friend was in the gayest mood. She showed her a trunkful of
delicate garments and gave her a glittering embroidered scarf, which
the girl rapturously admired, but declared she would never have the
courage to wear.

"You shall wear it this very night," declared the lady. "Here--show me
what you've got. You shall be as lovely as you _are_, for once!"

So Vivian brought out her modest wardrobe, and the older woman chose a
gown of white, insisted on shortening the sleeves to fairy wings of
lace, draped the scarf about her white neck, raised the soft,
close-bound hair to a regal crown, and put a shining star in it, and
added a string of pearls on the white throat.

"Look at yourself now, child!" she said.

Vivian looked, in the long depths of Mr. Dykeman's mirror. She knew
that she had beauty, but had never seen herself so brilliantly
attired. Erect, slender, graceful, the long lines of her young body
draped in soft white, and her dark head, crowned and shining, poised
on its white column, rising from the shimmering lace. Her color
deepened as she looked, and added to the picture.

"You shall wear it to-night! You shall!" cried her admiring friend.
"To please me--if no one else!"

Whether to please her or someone else, Vivian consented, the two
arriving rather late at the garden party across the way.

Mr. Dykeman, looking very tall and fine in his evening clothes, was a
cordial host, ably seconded by the eager boys about him.

The place was certainly a credit to their efforts, the bare rooms
being turned to bowers by vines and branches brought from the
mountains, and made fragrant by piled flowers. Lights glimmered
through colored shades among the leaves, and on the dining table young
Peters, who came from Connecticut, had rigged a fountain by means of
some rubber tubing and an auger hole in the floor. This he had made
before Mr. Dykeman caught him, and vowed Dr. Hale would not mind. Mr.
Peters' enjoyment of the evening, however, was a little dampened by
his knowledge of the precarious nature of this arrangement. He danced
attendance on Mrs. St. Cloud, with the others, but wore a preoccupied
expression, and stole in once or twice from the lit paths outside to
make sure that all was running well. It was well to and during supper
time, and the young man was complimented on his ingenuity.

"Reminds me of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon," said Mr. Skee,
sentimentally.

"Why?" asked Mrs. Pettigrew.

"Oh, _why_, Ma'am? How can a fellow say why?" he protested. "Becaus