ill engage all those girls.
I'm making a change at the house, for various reasons. You bring them to
me as soon as you like; but you I want at once. I wish you'd come home
with me to-night! Why don't you?"

Diantha's scanty baggage was all in sight. She looked around for an
excuse. Mrs. Weatherstone stood up laughing.

"Put the new address in the letter," she said, mischievously, "and come
along!"

*****

And the purple chauffeur, his disapproving back ineffectual in the
darkness, rolled them home.




CHAPTER IX. "SLEEPING IN."


     Men have marched in armies, fleets have borne them,
      Left their homes new countries to subdue;
     Young men seeking fortune wide have wandered--
      We have something new.

     Armies of young maidens cross our oceans;
      Leave their mother's love, their father's care;
     Maidens, young and helpless, widely wander,
      Burdens new to bear.

     Strange the land and language, laws and customs;
      Ignorant and all alone they come;
     Maidens young and helpless, serving strangers,
      Thus we keep the Home.

     When on earth was safety for young maidens
      Far from mother's love and father's care?
     We preserve The Home, and call it sacred--
      Burdens new they bear.


The sun had gone down on Madam Weatherstone's wrath, and risen to find
it unabated. With condensed disapprobation written on every well-cut
feature, she came to the coldly gleaming breakfast table.

That Mrs. Halsey was undoubtedly gone, she had to admit; yet so far
failed to find the exact words of reproof for a woman of independent
means discharging her own housekeeper when it pleased her.

Young Mathew unexpectedly appeared at breakfast, perhaps in anticipation
of a sort of Roman holiday in which his usually late and apologetic
stepmother would furnish the amusement. They were both surprised to find
her there before them, looking uncommonly fresh in crisp, sheer white,
with deep-toned violets in her belt.

She ate with every appearance of enjoyment, chatting amiably about the
lovely morning--the flowers, the garden and the gardeners; her efforts
ill seconded, however.

"Shall I attend to the orders this morning?" asked Madam Weatherstone
with an air of noble patience.

"O no, thank you!" replied Viva. "I have engaged a new housekeeper."

"A new housekeeper! When?" The old lady was shaken by this inconceivable
promptness.

"Last night," said her daughter-in-law, looking calmly across the table,
her color rising a little.

"And when is she coming, if I may ask?"

"She has come. I have been with her an hour already this morning."

Young Mathew smiled. This was amusing, though not what he had expected.
"How extremely alert and businesslike!" he said lazily. "It's becoming
to you--to get up early!"

"You can't have got much of a person--at a minute's notice," said his
grandmother. "Or perhaps you have been planning this for some time?"

"No," said Viva. "I have wanted to get rid of Mrs. Halsey for some time,
but the new one I found yesterday."

"What's her name?" inquired Mathew.

"Bell--Miss Diantha Bell," she answered, looking as calm as if
announcing the day of the week, but inwardly dreading the result
somewhat. Like most of such terrors it was overestimated.

There was a little pause--rather an intense little pause; and
then--"Isn't that the girl who set 'em all by the ears yesterday?"
asked the young man, pointing to the morning paper. "They say she's a
good-looker."

Madam Weatherstone rose from the table in some agitation. "I must say
I am very sorry, Viva, that you should have been so--precipitate! This
young woman cannot be competent to manage a house like this--to say
nothing of her scandalous ideas. Mrs. Halsey was--to my mind--perfectly
satisfactory. I shall miss her very much." She swept out with an
unanswerable air.

"So shall I," muttered Mat, under his breath, as he strolled after her;
"unless the new one's equally amiable."

Viva Weatherstone watched them go, and stood awhile looking after the
well-built, well-dressed, well-mannered but far from well-behaved young
man.

"I don't _know_," she said to herself, "but I do feel--think--imagine--a
good deal. I'm sure I hope not! Anyway--it's new life to have that girl
in the house."

That girl had undertaken what she described to Ross as "a large order--a
very large order."

"It's the hardest thing I ever undertook," she wrote him, "but I think
I can do it; and it will be a tremendous help. Mrs. Weatherstone's a
brick--a perfect brick! She seems to have been very unhappy--for ever
so long--and to have submitted to her domineering old mother-in-law just
because she didn't care enough to resist. Now she's got waked up all
of a sudden--she says it was my paper at the club--more likely my awful
example, I think! and she fired her old housekeeper--I don't know what
for--and rushed me in.

"So here I am. The salary is good, the work is excellent training, and I
guess I can hold the place. But the old lady is a terror, and the young
man--how you would despise that Johnny!"

The home letters she now received were rather amusing. Ross, sternly
p