shed by
any number of curtailed mice or crop-eared rats. "A mutilation is not
an acquired trait," he protested. "An acquired trait is one gained by
exercise; it modifies the whole organism. It must have an effect on the
race. We expect the sons of a line of soldiers to inherit their fathers'
courage--perhaps his habit of obedience--but not his wooden leg."

To establish his views he selected from a fine family of guinea-pigs two
pair; set the one, Pair A, in conditions of ordinary guinea-pig bliss,
and subjected the other, Pair B, to a course of discipline. They were
trained to run. They, and their descendants after them, pair following
on pair; first with slow-turning wheels as in squirrel cages, the wheel
inexorably going, machine-driven, and the luckless little gluttons
having to move on, for gradually increasing periods of time, at
gradually increasing speeds. Pair A and their progeny were sheltered
and fed, but the rod was spared; Pair B were as the guests at
"Muldoon's"--they had to exercise. With scientific patience and
ingenuity, he devised mechanical surroundings which made them jump
increasing spaces, which made them run always a little faster and a
little farther; and he kept a record as carefully as if these little
sheds were racing stables for a king.

Several centuries of guinea-pig time went by; generation after
generation of healthy guinea-pigs passed under his modifying hands;
and after some five years he had in one small yard a fine group of the
descendants of his gall-fed pair, and in another the offspring of
the trained ones; nimble, swift, as different from the first as the
razor-backed pig of the forest from the fatted porkers in the sty.
He set them to race--the young untrained specimens of these distant
cousins--and the hare ran away from the tortoise completely.

Great zoologists and biologists came to see him, studied, fingered,
poked, and examined the records; argued and disbelieved--and saw them
run.

"It is natural selection," they said. "It profited them to run."

"Not at all," said he. "They were fed and cared for alike, with no gain
from running."

"It was artificial selection," they said. "You picked out the speediest
for your training."

"Not at all," said he. "I took always any healthy pair from the trained
parents and from the untrained ones--quite late in life, you understand,
as guinea-pigs go."

Anyhow, there were the pigs; and he took little specialized piglets
scarce weaned, and pitted them against piglets of the untrained lot--and
they outran them in a race for "Mama." Wherefore Mr. Ross Warden found
himself famous of a sudden; and all over the scientific world the
Wiesmanian controversy raged anew. He was invited to deliver a lecture
before some most learned societies abroad, and in several important
centers at home, and went, rejoicing.

Diantha was glad for him from the bottom of her heart, and proud of him
through and through. She thoroughly appreciated his sturdy opposition to
such a weight of authority; his long patience, his careful, steady work.
She was left in full swing with her big business, busy and successful,
honored and liked by all the town--practically--and quite independent of
the small fraction which still disapproved. Some people always will. She
was happy, too, in her babies--very happy.

The Hotel del las Casas was a triumph.

Diantha owned it now, and Mrs. Weatherstone built others, in other
places, at a large profit.

Mrs. Warden went to live with Cora in the town. Cora had more time to
entertain her--as she was the one who profited by her sister-in-law's
general services.

Diantha sat in friendly talk with Mrs. Weatherstone one quiet day, and
admitted that she had no cause for complaint.

"And yet--?" said her friend.

Young Mrs. Warden smiled. "There's no keeping anything from you, is
there? Yes--you're right. I'm not quite satisfied. I suppose I ought not
to care--but you see, I love him so! I want him to _approve_ of me!--not
just put up with it, and bear it! I want him to _feel_ with me--to care.
It is awful to know that all this big life of mine is just a mistake to
him--that he condemns it in his heart."

"But you knew this from the beginning, my dear, didn't you?"

"Yes--I knew it--but it is different now. You know when you are
_married_--"

Mrs. Weatherstone looked far away through the wide window. "I do know,"
she said.

Diantha reached a strong hand to clasp her friend's. "I wish I could
give it to you," she said. "You have done so much for me! So much! You
have poured out your money like water!"

"My money! Well I like that!" said Mrs. Weatherstone. "I have taken my
money out of five and seven per cent investments, and put it into ten
per cent ones, that's all. Shall I never make you realize that I am a
richer woman because of you, Diantha Bell Warden! So don't try to be
grateful--I won't have it! Your work has _paid_ remember--paid me as
well as you; and lots of other folks beside. You know there are eighteen
good imitations of Union House running now, in different cities, and
three 'Las Casas!' all succeeding--and the papers are talking about the