r marriage
my own ardor had perhaps blinded me to much of this. I was madly in love
with not so much what was there as with what I supposed to be there. Now
I found an endlessly beautiful undiscovered country to explore, and in
it the sweetest wisdom and understanding. It was as if I had come to
some new place and people, with a desire to eat at all hours, and no
other interests in particular; and as if my hosts, instead of merely
saying, "You shall not eat," had presently aroused in me a lively desire
for music, for pictures, for games, for exercise, for playing in the
water, for running some ingenious machine; and, in the multitude of my
satisfactions, I forgot the one point which was not satisfied, and got
along very well until mealtime.

One of the cleverest and most ingenious of these tricks was only clear
to me many years after, when we were so wholly at one on this subject
that I could laugh at my own predicament then. It was this: You see,
with us, women are kept as different as possible and as feminine as
possible. We men have our own world, with only men in it; we get tired
of our ultra-maleness and turn gladly to the ultra-femaleness. Also,
in keeping our women as feminine as possible, we see to it that when
we turn to them we find the thing we want always in evidence. Well, the
atmosphere of this place was anything but seductive. The very numbers
of these human women, always in human relation, made them anything
but alluring. When, in spite of this, my hereditary instincts and
race-traditions made me long for the feminine response in Ellador,
instead of withdrawing so that I should want her more, she deliberately
gave me a little too much of her society.--always de-feminized, as it
were. It was awfully funny, really.

Here was I, with an Ideal in mind, for which I hotly longed, and here
was she, deliberately obtruding in the foreground of my consciousness a
Fact--a fact which I coolly enjoyed, but which actually interfered with
what I wanted. I see now clearly enough why a certain kind of man, like
Sir Almroth Wright, resents the professional development of women. It
gets in the way of the sex ideal; it temporarily covers and excludes
femininity.

Of course, in this case, I was so fond of Ellador my friend, of Ellador
my professional companion, that I necessarily enjoyed her society on any
terms. Only--when I had had her with me in her de-feminine capacity for
a sixteen-hour day, I could go to my own room and sleep without dreaming
about her.

The witch! If ever anybody worked to woo and win and hold a human soul,
she did, great superwoman that she was. I couldn't then half comprehend
the skill of it, the wonder. But this I soon began to find: that under
all our cultivated attitude of mind toward women, there is an older,
deeper, more "natural" feeling, the restful reverence which looks up to
the Mother sex.

So we grew together in friendship and happiness, Ellador and I, and so
did Jeff and Celis.

When it comes to Terry's part of it, and Alima's, I'm sorry--and
I'm ashamed. Of course I blame her somewhat. She wasn't as fine
a psychologist as Ellador, and what's more, I think she had a
far-descended atavistic trace of more marked femaleness, never apparent
till Terry called it out. But when all is said, it doesn't excuse him. I
hadn't realized to the full Terry's character--I couldn't, being a man.

The position was the same as with us, of course, only with these
distinctions. Alima, a shade more alluring, and several shades less able
as a practical psychologist; Terry, a hundredfold more demanding--and
proportionately less reasonable.

Things grew strained very soon between them. I fancy at first, when
they were together, in her great hope of parentage and his keen joy of
conquest--that Terry was inconsiderate. In fact, I know it, from things
he said.

"You needn't talk to me," he snapped at Jeff one day, just before
our weddings. "There never was a woman yet that did not enjoy being
MASTERED. All your pretty talk doesn't amount to a hill o'beans--I
KNOW." And Terry would hum:

    I've taken my fun where I found it.
    I've rogued and I've ranged in my time,

and

    The things that I learned from the yellow and black,
    They 'ave helped me a 'eap with the white.

Jeff turned sharply and left him at the time. I was a bit disquieted
myself.

Poor old Terry! The things he'd learned didn't help him a heap in
Herland. His idea was to take--he thought that was the way. He thought,
he honestly believed, that women like it. Not the women of Herland! Not
Alima!

I can see her now--one day in the very first week of their marriage,
setting forth to her day's work with long determined strides and
hard-set mouth, and sticking close to Ellador. She didn't wish to be
alone with Terry--you could see that.

But the more she kept away from him, the more he wanted her--naturally.

He made a tremendous row about their separate establishments, tried to
keep her in his rooms, tried to stay in hers. But there she drew the
line sharply.

He came away one night, and stamped up and down the moonlit road,
swearing under his breath.