hbert shouted, "Get out of this, or
I'll put you out."

Vivian rose to her feet. "You will do nothing of the kind. If you, all
of you, will go away, I can quiet Theophile, myself."

Susie went promptly. She had every confidence in her friend's
management. Mr. Cuthbert was sulky, but followed Susie; and Mr.
Saunders, after some hesitation, followed Susie, too.

Morton lingered, distrustful.

"Please go, Morton. I know how to manage him. Just leave us alone,"
Vivian urged.

"You'd better let me put him out, and keep him out, till the old woman
comes back," Morton insisted.

"You mean kindly, I don't doubt, but you're making me very angry,"
said the girl, flushing; and he reluctantly left the room. Professor
Toomey had departed long since, to fulfill his suggestion of calling
Dr. Hale, but when that gentleman appeared, he found that Vivian had
quieted the boy, stayed him with flagons and comforted him with
apples, as it were, and bound up his hand in wet cooking soda.

"It's not a very bad burn," she told the doctor, "but it hurt, and he
was frightened. He is afraid of everybody but his mother, and the men
were cross to him."

"I see," said Dr. Hale, watching Theophile as he munched his apple,
keeping carefully behind Vivian and very near her. "He does not seem
much afraid of you, I notice, and he's used to me. The soda is all
right. Where did you learn first aid to the injured, and how to
handle--persons of limited understanding?"

"The former I studied. The latter comes by nature, I think," replied
the girl, annoyed.

He laughed, rather suddenly. "It's a good quality, often needed in
this world."

"What's all this rumpus?" demanded Grandma, appearing at the door.
"Waking me up out of my nap!" Grandma's smooth, fine, still dark hair,
which she wore in "water waves," was somewhat disarranged, and she
held a little shawl about her.

"Only the household baby, playing with fire," Dr. Hale answered. "Miss
Lane resolved herself into a Red Cross society, and attended to the
wounded. However I think I'll have a look at it now I'm here."

Then was Vivian surprised, and compelled to admiration, to see with
what wise gentleness the big man won the confidence of the frightened
boy, examined the hurt hand, and bound it up again.

"You'll do, all right, won't you Theophile," he said, and offered him
a shining nickel and a lozenge, "Which will you have, old man?"

After some cautious hesitation the boy chose the lozenge, and hastily
applied it where it would do the most good.

"Where's Mrs. Jones all this time?" suddenly demanded Grandma, who had
gone back to her room and fetched forth three fat, pink gumdrops for
the further consolation of the afflicted.

"She had to go out to buy clothes for him, she hardly ever leaves him
you know," Vivian explained. "And the girls out there are so afraid
that they won't take any care of him."

This was true enough, but Vivian did not know that "Mrs. Jones" had
returned and, peering through her favorite peephole, had seen her send
out the others, and attend to the boy's burn with her own hand. Jeanne
Jeaune was not a sentimental person, and judged from her son's easy
consolation that he was little hurt, but she watched the girl's prompt
tenderness with tears in her eyes.

"She regards him, as any other boy;" thought the mother. "His
infirmity, she does not recall it." Dr. Hale had long since won her
approval, and when Theophile at last ran out, eager to share his
gumdrops, he found her busy as usual in the kitchen.

She was a silent woman, professionally civil to the waitresses, but
never cordial. The place pleased her, she was saving money, and she
knew that there must be _some_ waitresses--these were probably no
worse than others. For her unfortunate son she expected little, and
strove to keep him near her so far as possible; but Vivian's real
kindness touched her deeply.

She kept a sharp eye on whatever went on in the dining-room, and what
with the frequent dances and the little groups which used to hang
about the table after meals, or fill a corner of the big room for
quiet chats, she had good opportunities.

Morton's visible devotion she watched with deep disapproval; though
she was not at all certain that her "young lady" was favorably
disposed toward him. She could see and judge the feelings of the men,
these many men who ate and drank and laughed and paid court to both
the girls. Dr. Hale's brusque coldness she accepted, as from a higher
order of being. Susie's gay coquetries were transparent to her; but
Vivian she could not read so well.

The girl's deep conscientiousness, her courtesy and patience with all,
and the gentle way in which she evaded the attentions so persistently
offered, were new to Jeanne's experience. When Morton hung about and
tried always to talk with Vivian exclusively, she saw her listen with
kind attention, but somehow without any of that answering gleam which
made Susie's blue eyes so irresistible.

"She has the lovers, but she has _no_ beauty--to compare with my young
lady!" Jeanne commented inwardly.

If the sad-eyed Jeanne had been of Scotch extraction instead of
French