has no turning; There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip;
The worm will turn; The pitcher that goes too often to the well gets
broken at last; Better Late than Never. And so on and so forth. Any
other gentleman like to make remarks on this topic?"

Dr. Hale rose, towering to his feet.

"I think I'd better make them," he said. "No one else could so fully,
so heartily, with such perfect knowledge point out how many kinds of a
fool I've been for all these years. And yet of them all there are only
two that I regret--this last two in which if I had been wiser, perhaps
I might have found my happiness sooner. As that cannot be proven,
however, I will content myself with the general acknowledgment that
Bachelors are Misguided Bats, I myself having long been the worst
instance; women, in general, are to be loved and honored; and that I
am proud and glad to accept your congratulations because the sweetest
and noblest woman in the world has honored me with her love."

"I never dreamed you could put so many words together, Doc--and really
make sense!" said Mr. Skee, genially, as he rose once more. "You
certainly show a proper spirit at last, and all is forgiven. But now,
my friends; now if your attention is not exhausted, I have yet another
Event to confide to you."

Mr. and Mrs. Lane wore an aspect of polite interest. Susie and Jim
looked at each other with a sad but resigned expression. So did Mrs.
Dykeman and her husband. Vivian's hand was in her lover's and she
could not look unhappy, but they, too, deprecated this last
announcement, only too well anticipated. Only Mrs. St. Cloud, her fair
face bowed in gentle confusion, showed anticipating pleasure.

Mr. Skee waved his hand toward her with a large and graceful gesture.

"You must all of you have noticed the amount of Platonic Friendship
which has been going on for some time between my undeserving self and
this lovely lady here. Among so many lovely ladies perhaps I'd better
specify that I refer to the one on my left.

"What she has been to me, in my lonely old age, none of you perhaps
realize." He wore an expression as of one long exiled, knowing no one
who could speak his language.

"She has been my guide, counsellor and friend; she has assisted me
with advice most wise and judicious; she has not interfered with my
habits, but has allowed me to enjoy life in my own way, with the
added attraction of her companionship.

"Now, I dare say, there may have been some of you who have questioned
my assertion that this friendship was purely Platonic. Perhaps even
the lady herself, knowing the heart of man, may have doubted if my
feeling toward her was really friendship."

Mr. Skee turned his head a little to one side and regarded her with a
tender inquiring smile.

To this she responded sweetly: "Why no, Mr. Skee, of course, I
believed what you said."

"There, now," said he, admiringly. "What is so noble as the soul of
woman? It is to this noble soul in particular, and to all my friends
here in general, that I now confide the crowning glory of a long and
checkered career, namely, and to wit, that I am engaged to be married
to that Peerless Lady, Mrs. Servilla Pettigrew, of whose remarkable
capacities and achievements I can never sufficiently express my
admiration."

A silence fell upon the table. Mr. Skee sat down smiling, evidently in
cheerful expectation of congratulations. Mrs. Pettigrew wore an alert
expression, as of a skilled fencer preparing to turn any offered
thrusts. Mrs. St. Cloud seemed to be struggling with some emotion,
which shook her usual sweet serenity. The others, too, were visibly
affected, and not quick to respond.

Then did Mr. Saunders arise with real good nature and ever-ready wit;
and pour forth good-humored nonsense with congratulations all around,
till a pleasant atmosphere was established, in which Mrs. St. Cloud
could so far recover as to say many proper and pretty things; sadly
adding that she regretted her imminent return to the East would end so
many pleasant friendships.

       *       *       *       *       *




BOOKS BY

Charlotte Perkins Gilman


Moving the Mountain.

A Utopia at short range. How we might change this country in thirty
years, if we changed our minds first. Mrs. Gilman's latest book, like
her earliest verse, is a protest against the parrot cry that "you
can't alter human nature."

By mail of Charlton Co., $1.10


What Diantha Did.

A Novel.

"What she did was to solve the domestic service problem for both
mistress and maid in a southern California town."

                                                       "_The Survey._"

"A sensible book, it gives a new and deserved comprehension of the
importance and complexity of housekeeping."

                                                  "_The Independent._"

"Mrs. Perkins Gilman is as full of ideas as ever, and her Diantha is a
model for all young women."

                                                 "_The Englishwoman._"

By mail of Charlton Co., $1.10


The Man-Made World.

"We defy any thoughtful person to read this book of Mrs. Gilman, and not
be moved to or towards convictio