e
been alone, independent, quite free to change, the move would have
been difficult enough; but to make her plan and hold to it in the face
of a disapproving town, and the definite opposition of her parents,
was a heavy undertaking.

By habit she would have turned to Mrs. St. Cloud for advice; but
between her and that lady now rose the vague image of a young boy,
dead,--she could never feel the same to her again.

Dr. Bellair proved a tower of strength. "My dear girl," she would say to
her, patiently, but with repressed intensity, "do remember that you are
_not_ a child! You are twenty-five years old. You are a grown woman, and
have as much right to decide for yourself as a grown man. This isn't
wicked--it is a wise move; a practical one. Do you want to grow up like
the rest of the useless single women in this little social cemetery?"

Her mother took it very hard. "I don't see how you can think of
leaving us. We're getting old now--and here's Grandma to take care
of----"

"Huh!" said that lady, with such marked emphasis that Mrs. Lane
hastily changed the phrase to "I mean to _be with_--you do like to
have Vivian with you, you can't deny that, Mother."

"But Mama," said the girl, "you are not old; you are only forty-three.
I am sorry to leave you--I am really; but it isn't forever! I can come
back. And you don't really need me. Sarah runs the house exactly as
you like; you don't depend on me for a thing, and never did. As to
Grandma!"--and she looked affectionately at the old lady--"she don't
need me nor anybody else. She's independent if ever anybody was. She
won't miss me a mite--will you Grandma?" Mrs. Pettigrew looked at her
for a moment, the corners of her mouth tucked in tightly. "No," she
said, "I shan't miss you a mite!"

Vivian was a little grieved at the prompt acquiescence. She felt
nearer to her grandmother in many ways than to either parent. "Well,
I'll miss you!" said she, going to her and kissing her smooth pale
cheek, "I'll miss you awfully!"

Mr. Lane expressed his disapproval most thoroughly, and more than
once; then retired into gloomy silence, alternated with violent
dissuasion; but since a woman of twenty-five is certainly free to
choose her way of life, and there was no real objection to this
change, except that it _was_ a change, and therefore dreaded, his
opposition, though unpleasant, was not prohibitive. Vivian's
independent fortune of $87.50, the savings of many years, made the
step possible, even without his assistance.

There were two weeks of exceeding disagreeableness in the household,
but Vivian kept her temper and her determination under a rain of tears,
a hail of criticism, and heavy wind of argument and exhortation. All her
friends and neighbors, and many who were neither, joined in the effort
to dissuade her; but she stood firm as the martyrs of old.

Heredity plays strange tricks with us. Somewhere under the girl's dumb
gentleness and patience lay a store of quiet strength from some
Pilgrim Father or Mother. Never before had she set her will against
her parents; conscience had always told her to submit. Now conscience
told her to rebel, and she did. She made her personal arrangements,
said goodbye to her friends, declined to discuss with anyone, was
sweet and quiet and kind at home, and finally appeared at the
appointed hour on the platform of the little station.

Numbers of curious neighbors were there to see them off, all who knew
them and could spare the time seemed to be on hand. Vivian's mother
came, but her father did not.

At the last moment, just as the train drew in, Grandma appeared,
serene and brisk, descending, with an impressive amount of hand
baggage, from "the hack."

"Goodbye, Laura," she said. "I think these girls need a chaperon. I'm
going too."

So blasting was the astonishment caused by this proclamation, and so
short a time remained to express it, that they presently found
themselves gliding off in the big Pullman, all staring at one another
in silent amazement.

"I hate discussion," said Mrs. Pettigrew.

       *       *       *       *       *

None of these ladies were used to traveling, save Dr. Bellair, who had
made the cross continent trip often enough to think nothing of it.

The unaccustomed travelers found much excitement in the journey. As
women, embarking on a new, and, in the eyes of their friends, highly
doubtful enterprise, they had emotion to spare; and to be confronted
at the outset by a totally unexpected grandmother was too much for
immediate comprehension.

She looked from one to the other, sparkling, triumphant.

"I made up my mind, same as you did, hearing Jane Bellair talk," she
explained. "Sounded like good sense. I always wanted to travel, always,
and never had the opportunity. This was a real good chance." Her mouth
shut, tightened, widened, drew into a crinkly delighted smile.

They sat still staring at her.

"You needn't look at me like that! I guess it's a free country! I
bought my ticket--sent for it same as you did. And I didn't have to
ask _anybody_--I'm no daughter. My duty, as far as I know it, is
_done_! This is a pleasure trip!"

She