, with a small salary attached, was to act as assistant.

"It's a wonderful thing the way people take to these camps," said Dr.
Bellair. "They are springing up everywhere. Magnificent for children
and young people."

"It is a wonderful thing to me," observed Mrs. Pettigrew. "You go to a
wild place that costs no rent; you run a summer hotel without any
accommodations; you get a lot of parents to pay handsomely for letting
their children be uncomfortable--and there you are."

"They are not uncomfortable!" protested her friend, a little ruffled.
"They like it. And besides liking it, it's good for them. It's
precisely the roughing it that does them good."

It did do them good; the group of young women and girls who went to
the high-lying mountain lake where Dr. Bellair had bought a piece of
wild, rough country for her own future use, and none of them profited
by it more than Vivian.

She had been, from time to time, to decorous "shore places," where one
could do nothing but swim and lie on the sand; or to the "mountains,"
those trim, green, modest, pretty-picture mountains, of which New
England is so proud; but she had never before been in an untouched
wilderness.

Often in the earliest dawn she would rise from the springy, odorous
bed of balsam boughs and slip out alone for her morning swim. A run
through the pines to a little rocky cape, with a small cave she knew,
and to glide, naked, into that glass-smooth water, warmer than the
sunless air, and swim out softly, silently, making hardly a ripple,
turn on her back and lie there--alone with the sky--this brought
peace to her heart. She felt so free from every tie to earth, so like
a soul in space, floating there with the clean, dark water beneath
her, and the clear, bright heaven above her; and when the pale glow in
the east brightened to saffron, warmed to rose, burst into a level
blaze of gold, the lake laughed in the light, and Vivian laughed, too,
in pure joy of being alive and out in all that glittering beauty.

She tramped the hills with the girls; picked heaping pails of wild
berries, learned to cook in primitive fashion, slept as she had never
slept in her life, from dark to dawn, grew brown and hungry and
cheerful.

After all, twenty-seven was not an old age.

She came back at the summer-end, and Dr. Bellair clapped her warmly on
the shoulder, declaring, "I'm proud of you, Vivian! Simply proud of
you!"

Her grandmother, after a judicious embrace, held her at arm's length
and examined her critically.

"I don't see but what you've stood it first rate," she admitted. "And
if you _like_ that color--why, you certainly are looking well."

She was well, and began her second year of teaching with a serene
spirit.

In all this time of slow rebuilding Vivian would not have been left
comfortless if masculine admiration could have pleased her. The young
men at The Cottonwoods, now undistracted by Susie's gay presence,
concentrated much devotion upon Vivian, as did also the youths across
the way. She turned from them all, gently, but with absolute decision.

Among her most faithful devotees was young Percy Watson, who loved her
almost as much as he loved Dr. Hale, and could never understand, in his
guileless, boyish heart, why neither of them would talk about the other.

They did not forbid his talking, however, and the earnest youth,
sitting in the quiet parlor at The Cottonwoods, would free his heart
to Vivian about how the doctor worked too hard--sat up all hours to
study--didn't give himself any rest--nor any fun.

"He'll break down some time--I tell him so. It's not natural for any
man to work that way, and I don't see any real need of it. He says
he's working on a book--some big medical book, I suppose; but what's
the hurry? I wish you'd have him over here oftener, and make him amuse
himself a little, Miss Vivian."

"Dr. Hale is quite welcome to come at any time--he knows that," said
she.

Again the candid Percy, sitting on the doctor's shadowy piazza, poured
out his devoted admiration for her to his silent host.

"She's the finest woman I ever knew!" the boy would say. "She's so
beautiful and so clever, and so pleasant to everybody. She's
_square_--like a man. And she's kind--like a woman, only kinder; a
sort of motherliness about her. I don't see how she ever lived so long
without being married. I'd marry her in a minute if I was good
enough--and if she'd have me."

Dr. Hale tousled the ears of Balzac, the big, brown dog whose head was
so often on his knee, and said nothing. He had not seen the girl since
that night by the arbor.

Later in the season he learned, perforce, to know her better, and to
admire her more.

Susie's baby came with the new year, and brought danger and anxiety.
They hardly hoped to save the life of the child. The little mother was
long unable to leave her bed. Since her aunt was not there, but gone,
as Mrs. Dykeman, on an extended tour--"part business and part
honeymoon," her husband told her--and since Mrs. Pettigrew now ruled
alone at The Cottonwoods, with every evidence of ability and
enjoyment, Vivian promptly installed herself in the Saunders hom