. And I dare say
library work is better than school-teaching."

"What'll we be doing when we're forty, I wonder?" said Vivian, after
another turn.

"Forty! Why I expect to be a grandma by that time," said Sue. She was
but twenty-one, and forty looked a long way off to her.

"A grandma! And knit?" suggested Vivian.

"Oh, yes--baby jackets--and blankets--and socks--and little shawls. I
love to knit," said Sue, cheerfully.

"But suppose you don't marry?" pursued her friend.

"Oh, but I shall marry--you see if I don't. Marriage"--here she
carefully went inside the gate and latched it--"marriage is--a woman's
duty!" And she ran up the path laughing.

Vivian laughed too, rather grimly, and slowly walked towards her own
door.

The little sitting-room was hot, very hot; but Mr. Lane sat with his
carpet-slippered feet on its narrow hearth with a shawl around him.

"Shut the door, Vivian!" he exclaimed irritably. "I'll never get over
this cold if such draughts are let in on me."

"Why, it's not cold out, Father--and it's very close in here."

Mrs. Lane looked up from her darning. "You think it's close because
you've come in from outdoors. Sit down--and don't fret your father;
I'm real worried about him."

Mr. Lane coughed hollowly. He had become a little dry old man with
gray, glassy eyes, and had been having colds in this fashion ever
since Vivian could remember.

"Dr. Bellair says that the out-door air is the best medicine for a
cold," remarked Vivian, as she took off her things.

"Dr. Bellair has not been consulted in this case," her father returned
wheezingly. "I'm quite satisfied with my family physician. He's a man,
at any rate."

"Save me from these women doctors!" exclaimed his wife.

Vivian set her lips patiently. She had long since learned how widely she
differed from both father and mother, and preferred silence to dispute.

Mr. Lane was a plain, ordinary person, who spent most of a moderately
useful life in the shoe business, from which he had of late withdrawn.
Both he and his wife "had property" to a certain extent; and now lived
peacefully on their income with neither fear nor hope, ambition nor
responsibility to trouble them. The one thing they were yet anxious
about was to see Vivian married, but this wish seemed to be no nearer
to fulfillment for the passing years.

"I don't know what the women are thinking of, these days," went on the
old gentleman, putting another shovelful of coal on the fire with a
careful hand. "Doctors and lawyers and even ministers, some of 'em!
The Lord certainly set down a woman's duty pretty plain--she was to
cleave unto her husband!"

"Some women have no husbands to cleave to, Father."

"They'd have husbands fast enough if they'd behave themselves," he
answered. "No man's going to want to marry one of these
self-sufficient independent, professional women, of course."

"I do hope, Viva," said her mother, "that you're not letting that Dr.
Bellair put foolish ideas into your head."

"I want to do something to support myself--sometime, Mother. I can't
live on my parents forever."

"You be patient, child. There's money enough for you to live on. It's
a woman's place to wait," put in Mr. Lane.

"How long?" inquired Vivian. "I'm twenty-five. No man has asked me to
marry him yet. Some of the women in this town have waited
thirty--forty--fifty--sixty years. No one has asked them."

"I was married at sixteen," suddenly remarked Vivian's grandmother.
"And my mother wasn't but fifteen. Huh!" A sudden little derisive
noise she made; such as used to be written "humph!"

For the past five years, Mrs. Pettigrew had made her home with the
Lanes. Mrs. Lane herself was but a feeble replica of her energetic
parent. There was but seventeen years difference in their ages, and
comparative idleness with some ill-health on the part of the
daughter, had made the difference appear less.

Mrs. Pettigrew had but a poor opinion of the present generation. In her
active youth she had reared a large family on a small income; in her
active middle-age, she had trotted about from daughter's house to son's
house, helping with the grandchildren. And now she still trotted about
in all weathers, visiting among the neighbors and vibrating as regularly
as a pendulum between her daughter's house and the public library.

The books she brought home were mainly novels, and if she perused
anything else in the severe quiet of the reading-room, she did not talk
about it. Indeed, it was a striking characteristic of Mrs. Pettigrew
that she talked very little, though she listened to all that went on
with a bright and beady eye, as of a highly intelligent parrot. And now,
having dropped her single remark into the conversation, she shut her
lips tight as was her habit, and drew another ball of worsted from the
black bag that always hung at her elbow.

She was making one of those perennial knitted garments, which, in her
young days, were called "Cardigan jackets," later "Jerseys," and now by
the offensive name of "sweater." These she constructed in great numbers,
and their probable expense was a source of discussion in the town. "How
do you fi