ave a fondness for grapes that are green,
      And the sourness that greenness beneath;
                   You may have a right
                   To a colic at night--
      But consider your children's teeth!


Dr. Hale retired from his gaily illuminated grounds in too much
displeasure to consider the question of dignity. One suddenly acting
cause was the news given him by Vivian. The other was the sight of
Morton Elder's face as he struck a match to light his cigarette.

Thus moved, and having entered and left his own grounds like a thief
in the night, he proceeded to tramp in the high-lying outskirts of the
town until every light in his house had gone out. Then he returned,
let himself into his office, and lay there on a lounge until morning.

Vivian had come out so quickly to greet the doctor from obscure
motives. She felt a sudden deep objection to being found there with
Morton, a wish to appear as one walking about unconcernedly, and when
that match glow made Morton's face shine out prominently in the dark
shelter, she, too, felt a sudden displeasure.

Without a word she went swiftly to the house, excused herself to her
Grandmother, who nodded understandingly, and returned to The
Cottonwoods, to her room. She felt that she must be alone and think;
think of that irrevocable word she had uttered, and its consequences.

She sat at her window, rather breathless, watching the rows of pink
lanterns swaying softly on the other side of the street; hearing the
lively music, seeing young couples leave the gate and stroll off
homeward.

Susie's happiness came more vividly to mind than her own. It was so
freshly joyous, so pure, so perfectly at rest. She could not feel that
way, could not tell with decision exactly how she did feel. But if this
was happiness, it was not as she had imagined it. She thought of that
moonlit summer night so long ago, and the memory of its warm wonder
seemed sweeter than the hasty tumult and compulsion of to-night.

She was stirred through and through by Morton's intense emotion, but
with a sort of reaction, a wish to escape. He had been so madly
anxious, he had held her so close; there seemed no other way but to
yield to him--in order to get away.

And then Dr. Hale had jarred the whole situation. She had to be polite
to him, in his own grounds. If only Morton had kept still--that
grating match--his face, bent and puffing, Dr. Hale must have seen
him. And again she thought of little Susie with almost envy. Even
after that young lady had come in, bubbled over with confidences and
raptures, and finally dropped to sleep without Vivian's having been
able to bring herself to return the confidences, she stole back to her
window again to breathe.

Why had Dr. Hale started so at the name of Mrs. St. Cloud? That was
puzzling her more than she cared to admit. By and by she saw his
well-known figure, tall and erect, march by on the other side and go
into the office.

"O, well," she sighed at last, "I'm not young, like Susie. Perhaps it
_is_ like this--"

Now Morton had been in no special need of that cigarette at that
special moment, but he did not wish to seem to hide in the dusky
arbor, nor to emerge lamely as if he had hidden. So he lit the match,
more from habit than anything else. When it was out, and the cigarette
well lighted, he heard the doctor's sudden thump on the other side of
the fence and came out to rejoin Vivian. She was not there.

He did not see her again that night, and his meditations were such
that next day found him, as a lover, far more agreeable to Vivian than
the night before. He showed real understanding, no triumph, no airs of
possession; took no liberties, only said: "When I am good enough I
shall claim you--my darling!" and looked at her with such restrained
longing that she quite warmed to him again.

He held to this attitude, devoted, quietly affectionate; till her
sense of rebellion passed away and her real pleasure in his
improvement reasserted itself. As they read together, if now and then
his arm stole around her waist, he always withdrew it when so
commanded. Still, one cannot put the same severity into a prohibition
too often repeated. The constant, thoughtful attention of a man
experienced in the art of pleasing women, the new and frankly
inexperienced efforts he made to meet her highest thoughts, to learn
and share her preferences, both pleased her.

He was certainly good looking, certainly amusing, certainly had become
a better man from her companionship. She grew to feel a sort of
ownership in this newly arisen character; a sort of pride in it. Then,
she had always been fond of Morton, since the time when he was only
"Susie's big brother." That counted.

Another thing counted, too, counted heavily, though Vivian never
dreamed of it and would have hotly repudiated the charge. She was a
woman of full marriageable age, with all the unused powers of her
woman's nature calling for expression, quite unrecognized.

He was a man who loved her, loved her more deeply than he had ever
loved before, than he had even known he could love; who quite
recognized what called within him a