he country outside,
they smilingly shook their heads.

They brought pictures, not only the engravings in the books but colored
studies of plants and trees and flowers and birds. They brought tools
and various small objects--we had plenty of "material" in our school.

If it had not been for Terry we would have been much more contented, but
as the weeks ran into months he grew more and more irritable.

"Don't act like a bear with a sore head," I begged him. "We're getting
on finely. Every day we can understand them better, and pretty soon we
can make a reasonable plea to be let out--"

"LET out!" he stormed. "LET out--like children kept after school. I want
to Get Out, and I'm going to. I want to find the men of this place and
fight!--or the girls--"

"Guess it's the girls you're most interested in," Jeff commented. "What
are you going to fight WITH--your fists?"

"Yes--or sticks and stones--I'd just like to!" And Terry squared off and
tapped Jeff softly on the jaw. "Just for instance," he said.

"Anyhow," he went on, "we could get back to our machine and clear out."

"If it's there," I cautiously suggested.

"Oh, don't croak, Van! If it isn't there, we'll find our way down
somehow--the boat's there, I guess."

It was hard on Terry, so hard that he finally persuaded us to consider
a plan of escape. It was difficult, it was highly dangerous, but he
declared that he'd go alone if we wouldn't go with him, and of course we
couldn't think of that.

It appeared he had made a pretty careful study of the environment. From
our end window that faced the point of the promontory we could get a
fair idea of the stretch of wall, and the drop below. Also from the roof
we could make out more, and even, in one place, glimpse a sort of path
below the wall.

"It's a question of three things," he said. "Ropes, agility, and not
being seen."

"That's the hardest part," I urged, still hoping to dissuade him. "One
or another pair of eyes is on us every minute except at night."

"Therefore we must do it at night," he answered. "That's easy."

"We've got to think that if they catch us we may not be so well treated
afterward," said Jeff.

"That's the business risk we must take. I'm going--if I break my neck."
There was no changing him.

The rope problem was not easy. Something strong enough to hold a man and
long enough to let us down into the garden, and then down over the wall.
There were plenty of strong ropes in the gymnasium--they seemed to love
to swing and climb on them--but we were never there by ourselves.

We should have to piece it out from our bedding, rugs, and garments, and
moreover, we should have to do it after we were shut in for the
night, for every day the place was cleaned to perfection by two of our
guardians.

We had no shears, no knives, but Terry was resourceful. "These Jennies
have glass and china, you see. We'll break a glass from the bathroom and
use that. 'Love will find out a way,'" he hummed. "When we're all out of
the window, we'll stand three-man high and cut the rope as far up as we
can reach, so as to have more for the wall. I know just where I saw
that bit of path below, and there's a big tree there, too, or a vine or
something--I saw the leaves."

It seemed a crazy risk to take, but this was, in a way, Terry's
expedition, and we were all tired of our imprisonment.

So we waited for full moon, retired early, and spent an anxious hour or
two in the unskilled manufacture of man-strong ropes.

To retire into the depths of the closet, muffle a glass in thick cloth,
and break it without noise was not difficult, and broken glass will cut,
though not as deftly as a pair of scissors.

The broad moonlight streamed in through four of our windows--we had not
dared leave our lights on too long--and we worked hard and fast at our
task of destruction.

Hangings, rugs, robes, towels, as well as bed-furniture--even the
mattress covers--we left not one stitch upon another, as Jeff put it.

Then at an end window, as less liable to observation, we fastened one
end of our cable, strongly, to the firm-set hinge of the inner blind,
and dropped our coiled bundle of rope softly over.

"This part's easy enough--I'll come last, so as to cut the rope," said
Terry.

So I slipped down first, and stood, well braced against the wall; then
Jeff on my shoulders, then Terry, who shook us a little as he sawed
through the cord above his head. Then I slowly dropped to the ground,
Jeff following, and at last we all three stood safe in the garden, with
most of our rope with us.

"Good-bye, Grandma!" whispered Terry, under his breath, and we crept
softly toward the wall, taking advantage of the shadow of every bush
and tree. He had been foresighted enough to mark the very spot, only a
scratch of stone on stone, but we could see to read in that light. For
anchorage there was a tough, fair-sized shrub close to the wall.

"Now I'll climb up on you two again and go over first," said Terry.
"That'll hold the rope firm till you both get up on top. Then I'll go
down to the end. If I can get off safely, you can see me and follow--or,
say, I'll twitch it three times.