out their lovely little soft helplessness--when you hold
them in your arms and have to do _everything_ for them. Have to go and
turn them over--see that the little ear isn't crumpled--that the covers
are all right. Can't you see 'em, upside down on the bath apron,
grabbing at things, perfectly happy, but prepared to howl when it comes
to dressing? And when they are big enough to love you! Little soft arms
that will hardly go round your neck. Little soft cheeks against yours,
little soft mouths and little soft kisses,--ever think of them?"

The girl's eyes were like stars. She was looking into the future; her
breath came quickly; she sat quite still.

The doctor swallowed hard, and went on. "We mostly don't go much
farther than that at first. It's just the babies we want. But you can
look farther--can follow up, year by year, the lovely changing growing
bodies and minds, the confidence and love between you, the pride you
have as health is established, strength and skill developed, and
character unfolds and deepens.

"Then when they are grown, and sort of catch up, and you have those
splendid young lives about you, intimate strong friends and tender
lovers. And you feel as though you had indeed done something for the
world."

She stopped, saying no more for a little, watching the girl's awed
shining face. Suddenly that face was turned to her, full of exquisite
sympathy, the dark eyes swimming with sudden tears; and two soft eager
arms held her close.

"Oh, Doctor! To care like that and not--!"

"Yes, my dear;" said the doctor, quietly. "And not have any. Not be
able to have any--ever."

Vivian caught her breath with pitying intensity, but her friend went
on.

"Never be able to have a child, because I married a man who had
gonorrhea. In place of happy love, lonely pain. In place of
motherhood, disease. Misery and shame, child. Medicine and surgery,
and never any possibility of any child for me."

The girl was pale with horror. "I--I didn't know--" She tried to say
something, but the doctor burst out impatiently:

"No! You don't know. I didn't know. Girls aren't taught a word of
what's before them till it's too late--not _then_, sometimes! Women
lose every joy in life, every hope, every capacity for service or
pleasure. They go down to their graves without anyone's telling them
the cause of it all."

"That was why you--left him?" asked Vivian presently.

"Yes, I left him. When I found I could not be a mother I determined to
be a doctor, and save other women, if I could." She said this with
such slow, grave emphasis that Vivian turned a sudden startled face to
her, and went white to the lips.

"I may be wrong," the doctor said, "you have not given me your
confidence in this matter. But it is better, a thousand times better,
that I should make this mistake than for you to make that. You must
not marry Morton Elder."

Vivian did not admit nor deny. She still wore that look of horror.

"You think he has--That?"

"I do not know whether he has gonorrhea or not; it takes a long
microscopic analysis to be sure; but there is every practical
assurance that he's had it, and I know he's had syphilis."

If Vivian could have turned paler she would have, then.

"I've heard of--that," she said, shuddering.

"Yes, the other is newer to our knowledge, far commoner, and really
more dangerous. They are two of the most terrible diseases known to
us; highly contagious, and in the case of syphilis, hereditary. Nearly
three-quarters of the men have one or the other, or both."

But Vivian was not listening. Her face was buried in her hands. She
crouched low in agonized weeping.

"Oh, come, come, my dear. Don't take it so hard. There's no harm done
you see, it's not too late."

"Oh, it _is_ too late! It is!" wailed the girl. "I have promised to
marry him."

"I don't care if you were at the altar, child; you _haven't_ married
him, and you mustn't."

"I have given my word!" said the girl dully. She was thinking of
Morton now. Of his handsome face, with it's new expression of
respectful tenderness; of all the hopes they had built together; of
his life, so dependent upon hers for its higher interests.

She turned to the doctor, her lips quivering. "He _loves_ me!" she
said. "I--we--he says I am all that holds him up, that helps him to
make a newer better life. And he has changed so--I can see it! He says
he has loved me, really, since he was seventeen!"

The older sterner face did not relax.

"He told me he had--done wrong. He was honest about it. He said he
wasn't--worthy."

"He isn't," said Dr. Bellair.

"But surely I owe some duty to him. He depends on me. And I have
promised--"

The doctor grew grimmer. "Marriage is for motherhood," she said. "That
is its initial purpose. I suppose you might deliberately forego
motherhood, and undertake a sort of missionary relation to a man, but
that is not marriage."

"He loves me," said the girl with gentle stubbornness. She saw Morton's
eyes, as she had so often seen them lately; full of adoration and manly
patience. She felt his hand, as she had felt it so often lately, holding
hers, stealing about her waist, someti