Look here, Morton," said Vivian firmly. "It is not a question of who
told me. The important thing is that it's--true! And I cannot marry
you."

"But Vivian--" he pleaded, trying to restrain the intensity of his
feeling; "men get over these things. They do, really. It's not so
awful as you seem to think. It's very common. And I'm nearly well. I
was going to wait a year or two yet--to make sure--. Vivian! I'd cut
my hand off before I'd hurt you!"

There was real agony in his voice, and her heart smote her; but there
was something besides her heart ruling the girl now.

"I am sorry--I'm very sorry," she said dully. "But I will not marry
you."

"You'll throw me over--just for that! Oh, Vivian don't--you can't. I'm
no worse than other men. It seems so terrible to you just because
you're so pure and white. It's only what they call--wild oats, you
know. Most men do it."

She shook her head.

"And will you punish me--so cruelly--for that? I can't live without
you, Vivian--I won't!"

"It is not a question of punishing you, Morton," she said gently. "Nor
myself. It is not the sin I am considering. It is the consequences!"

He felt a something high and implacable in the gentle girl; something
he had never found in her before. He looked at her with despairing
eyes. Her white grace, her stately little ways, her delicate beauty,
had never seemed so desirable.

"Good God, Vivian. You can't mean it. Give me time. Wait for me. I'll
be straight all the rest of my life--I mean it. I'll be true to you,
absolutely. I'll do anything you say--only don't give me up!"

She felt old, hundreds of years old, and as remote as far mountains.

"It isn't anything you can do--in the rest of your life, my poor boy!
It is what you have done--in the first of it!... Oh, Morton! It isn't
right to let us grow up without knowing! You never would have done it
_if_ you'd known--would you? Can't you--can't we--do something
to--stop this awfulness?"

Her tender heart suffered in the pain she was inflicting, suffered too
in her own loss; for as she faced the thought of final separation she
found that her grief ran back into the far-off years of childhood. But
she had made up her mind with a finality only the more absolute
because it hurt her. Even what he said of possible recovery did not
move her--the very thought of marriage had become impossible.

"I shall never marry," she added, with a shiver; thinking that he
might derive some comfort from the thought; but he replied with a
bitter derisive little laugh. He did not rise to her appeal to "help
the others." So far in life the happiness of Morton Elder had been his
one engrossing care; and now the unhappiness of Morton Elder assumed
even larger proportions.

That bright and hallowed future to which he had been looking forward
so earnestly had been suddenly withdrawn from him; his good
resolutions, his "living straight" for the present, were wasted.

"You women that are so superior," he said, "that'll turn a man down
for things that are over and done with--that he's sorry for and
ashamed of--do you know what you drive a man to! What do you think's
going to become of me if you throw me over!"

He reached out his hands to her in real agony. "Vivian! I love you! I
can't live without you! I can't be good without you! And you love me a
little--don't you?"

She did. She could not deny it. She loved to shut her eyes to the
future, to forgive the past, to come to those outstretched arms and
bury everything beneath that one overwhelming phrase--"I love you!"

But she heard again Dr. Bellair's clear low accusing voice--"Will you
tell that to your crippled children?"

She rose to her feet. "I cannot help it, Morton. I am sorry--you will
not believe how sorry I am! But I will never marry you."

A look of swift despair swept over his face. It seemed to darken
visibly as she watched. An expression of bitter hatred came upon him;
of utter recklessness.

All that the last few months had seemed to bring of higher better
feeling fell from him; and even as she pitied him she thought with a
flicker of fear of how this might have happened--after marriage.

"Oh, well!" he said, rising to his feet. "I wish you could have made
up your mind sooner, that's all. I'll take myself off now."

She reached out her hands to him.

"Morton! Please!--don't go away feeling so hardly! I am--fond of
you--I always was.--Won't you let me help you--to bear it--! Can't we
be--friends?"

Again he laughed that bitter little laugh. "No, Miss Lane," he said. "We
distinctly cannot. This is good-bye--You won't change your mind--again?"

She shook her head in silence, and he left her.




CHAPTER XI.

THEREAFTER.

      If I do right, though heavens fall,
        And end all light and laughter;
      Though black the night and ages long,
        Bitter the cold--the tempest strong--
      If I do right, and brave it all--
        The sun shall rise thereafter!


The inaccessibility of Dr. Hale gave him, in the eye of Mrs. St.
Cloud, all the attractiveness of an unscaled peak to the true mountain
climber. Here was a man, an unattached man, living next door to her,
who