dull stones of uncertain shapes, and
slender chains that glittered here and there among her scarfs and
laces, sinking gracefully among deep cushions, even able to sink
gracefully into a common Bainville chair--this beautiful woman had
captured the girl's imagination from the first.

Clearly known, she was a sister of Mrs. Williams, visiting
indefinitely. Vaguely--and very frequently--hinted, her husband had
"left her," and "she did not believe in divorce." Against her
background of dumb patience, he shone darkly forth as A Brute of
unknown cruelties. Nothing against him would she ever say, and every
young masculine heart yearned to make life brighter to the Ideal
Woman, so strangely neglected; also some older ones. Her Young Men's
Bible Class was the pride of Mr. Williams' heart and joy of such young
men as the town possessed; most of Bainville's boys had gone.

"A wonderful uplifting influence," Mr. Williams called her, and
refused to say anything, even when directly approached, as to "the
facts" of her trouble. "It is an old story," he would say. "She bears
up wonderfully. She sacrifices her life rather than her principles."

To Vivian, sitting now on a hassock at the lady's feet and looking up
at her with adoring eyes, she was indeed a star, a saint, a cloud of
mystery.

She reached out a soft hand, white, slender, delicately kept, wearing
one thin gold ring, and stroked the girl's smooth hair. Vivian seized
the hand and kissed it, blushing as she did so.

"You foolish child! Don't waste your young affection on an old lady
like me."

"Old! You! You don't look as old as I do this minute!" said the girl
with hushed intensity.

"Life wears on you, I'm afraid, my dear.... Do you ever hear from him?"

To no one else, not even to Susie, could Vivian speak of what now
seemed the tragedy of her lost youth.

"No," said she. "Never now. He did write once or twice--at first."

"He writes to his aunt, of course?"

"Yes," said Vivian. "But not often. And he never--says anything."

"I understand. Poor child! You must be true, and wait." And the lady
turned the thin ring on her finger. Vivian watched her in a passion of
admiring tenderness.

"Oh, you understand!" she exclaimed. "You understand!"

"I understand, my dear," said Mrs. St. Cloud.

When Vivian reached her own gate she leaned her arms upon it and
looked first one way and then the other, down the long, still street.
The country was in sight at both ends--the low, monotonous, wooded
hills that shut them in. It was all familiar, wearingly familiar. She
had known it continuously for such part of her lifetime as was
sensitive to landscape effects, and had at times a mad wish for an
earthquake to change the outlines a little.

The infrequent trolley car passed just then and Sue Elder joined her,
to take the short cut home through the Lane's yard.

"Here you are," she said cheerfully, "and here are the books."

Vivian thanked her.

"Oh, say--come in after supper, can't you? Aunt Rella's had another
letter from Mort."

Vivian's sombre eyes lit up a little.

"How's he getting on? In the same business he was last year?" she
asked with an elaborately cheerful air. Morton had seemed to change
occupations oftener than he wrote letters.

"Yes, I believe so. I guess he's well. He never says much, you know.
I don't think it's good for him out there--good for any boy." And
Susie looked quite the older sister.

"What are they to do? They can't stay here."

"No, I suppose not--but we have to."

"Dr. Bellair didn't," remarked Vivian. "I like her--tremendously,
don't you?" In truth, Dr. Bellair was already a close second to Mrs.
St. Cloud in the girl's hero-worshipping heart.

"Oh, yes; she's splendid! Aunt Rella is so glad to have her with us.
They have great times recalling their school days together. Aunty used
to like her then, though she is five years older--but you'd never
dream it. And I think she's real handsome."

"She's not beautiful," said Vivian, with decision, "but she's a lot
better. Sue Elder, I wish----"

"Wish what?" asked her friend.

Sue put the books on the gate-post, and the two girls, arm in arm,
walked slowly up and down.

Susie was a round, palely rosy little person, with a delicate face and
soft, light hair waving fluffily about her small head. Vivian's hair was
twice the length, but so straight and fine that its mass had no effect.
She wore it in smooth plaits wound like a wreath from brow to nape.

After an understanding silence and a walk past three gates and back
again, Vivian answered her.

"I wish I were in your shoes," she said.

"What do you mean--having the Doctor in the house?"

"No--I'd like that too; but I mean work to do--your position."

"Oh, the library! You needn't; it's horrid. I wish I were in your shoes,
and had a father and mother to take care of me. I can tell you, it's no
fun--having to be there just on time or get fined, and having to poke
away all day with those phooty old ladies and tiresome children."

"But you're independent."

"Oh, yes, I'm independent. I have to be. Aunt Rella _could_ take care
of me, I suppose, but of course I wouldn't let her