e up like a flood in the girl's hot young heart.

Ross had turned to her--was holding out his arms to her. "You won't go,
my darling!" he said.

"I am going Wednesday on the 7.10," said Diantha.




CHAPTER IV. A CRYING NEED


   "Lovest thou me?" said the Fair Ladye;
    And the Lover he said, "Yea!"
   "Then climb this tree--for my sake," said she,
    "And climb it every day!"
   So from dawn till dark he abrazed the bark
    And wore his clothes away;
   Till, "What has this tree to do with thee?"
    The Lover at last did say.


It was a poor dinner. Cold in the first place, because Isabel would wait
to thoroughly wash her long artistic hands; and put on another dress.
She hated the smell of cooking in her garments; hated it worse on her
white fingers; and now to look at the graceful erect figure, the
round throat with the silver necklace about it, the soft smooth
hair, silver-filletted, the negative beauty of the dove-colored gown,
specially designed for home evenings, one would never dream she had set
the table so well--and cooked the steak so abominably.


Isabel was never a cook. In the many servantless gaps of domestic life
in Orchardina, there was always a strained atmosphere in the Porne
household.

"Dear," said Mr. Porne, "might I petition to have the steak less cooked?
I know you don't like to do it, so why not shorten the process?"

"I'm sorry," she answered, "I always forget about the steak from one
time to the next."

"Yet we've had it three times this week, my dear."

"I thought you liked it better than anything," she with marked
gentleness. "I'll get you other things--oftener."

"It's a shame you should have this to do, Isabel. I never meant you
should cook for me. Indeed I didn't dream you cared so little about it."

"And I never dreamed you cared so much about it," she replied, still
with repression. "I'm not complaining, am I? I'm only sorry you should
be disappointed in me."

"It's not _you,_ dear girl! You're all right! It's just this everlasting
bother. Can't you get _anybody_ that will stay?"

"I can't seem to get anybody on any terms, so far. I'm going again,
to-morrow. Cheer up, dear--the baby keeps well--that's the main thing."

He sat on the rose-bowered porch and smoked while she cleared the table.
At first he had tried to help her on these occasions, but their methods
were dissimilar and she frankly told him she preferred to do it alone.

So she slipped off the silk and put on the gingham again, washed the
dishes with the labored accuracy of a trained mind doing unfamiliar
work, made the bread, redressed at last, and joined him about nine
o'clock.

"It's too late to go anywhere, I suppose?" he ventured.

"Yes--and I'm too tired. Besides--we can't leave Eddie alone."

"O yes--I forget. Of course we can't."

His hand stole out to take hers. "I _am_ sorry, dear. It's awfully rough
on you women out here. How do they all stand it?"

"Most of them stand it much better than I do, Ned. You see they don't
want to be doing anything else."

"Yes. That's the mischief of it!" he agreed; and she looked at him in
the clear moonlight, wondering exactly what he thought the mischief was.

"Shall we go in and read a bit?" he offered; but she thought not.

"I'm too tired, I'm afraid. And Eddie'll wake up as soon as we begin."

So they sat awhile enjoying the soft silence, and the rich flower scents
about them, till Eddie did wake presently, and Isabel went upstairs.

She slept little that night, lying quite still, listening to her
husband's regular breathing so near her, and the lighter sound from the
crib. "I am a very happy woman," she told herself resolutely; but there
was no outpouring sense of love and joy. She knew she was happy, but by
no means felt it. So she stared at the moon shadows and thought it over.

She had planned the little house herself, with such love, such hope,
such tender happy care! Not her first work, which won high praise in the
school in Paris, not the prize-winning plan for the library, now gracing
Orchardina's prettiest square, was as dear to her as this most womanly
task--the making of a home.

It was the library success which brought her here, fresh from her
foreign studies, and Orchardina accepted with western cordiality the
youth and beauty of the young architect, though a bit surprised at first
that "I. H. Wright" was an Isabel. In her further work of overseeing
the construction of that library, she had met Edgar Porne, one of
the numerous eager young real estate men of that region, who showed a
liberal enthusiasm for the general capacity of women in the professions,
and a much warmer feeling for the personal attractions of this one.

Together they chose the lot on pepper-shaded Inez Avenue; together they
watched the rising of the concrete walls and planned the garden walks
and seats, and the tiny precious pool in the far corner. He was so
sympathetic! so admiring! He took as much pride in the big "drawing
room" on the third floor as she did herself. "Architecture is such fine
work to do at home!" they had both agreed. "Here you have your north
light--your big table--plenty of ro