 talk with," she said, after he had given her this brief sketch of
his youth.

"Thank you, ma'am," said Mr. Skee. "May I have the pleasure of this
dance?"

"I haven't danced in thirty years," said she, dubitating.

"The more reason for doing it now," he calmly insisted.

"Why not?" said Mrs. Pettigrew, and they forthwith executed a species
of march, the gentleman pacing with the elaborate grace of a circus
horse, and Grandma stepping at his side with great decorum.

Later on, warming to the occasion, Mr. Skee frisked and high-stepped
with the youngest and gayest, and found the supper so wholly to his
liking that he promptly applied for a room, and as soon as one was
vacant it was given to him.

Vivian danced to her heart's content and enjoyed the friendly
merriment about her; but when Fordham Greer took her out on the long
piazza to rest and breathe a little, she saw the dark bulk of the
house across the street and the office with its half-lit window, and
could not avoid thinking of the lonely man there.

He had not come to the dance, no one expected that, of course; but all
his boys had come and were having the best of times.

"It's his own fault, of course; but it's a shame," she thought.

The music sounded gaily from within, and young Greer urged for another
dance.

She stood there for a moment, hesitating, her hand on his arm, when a
tall figure came briskly up the street from the station, turned in at
their gate, came up the steps----

The girl gave a little cry, and shrank back for an instant, then
eagerly came forward and gave her hand to him.

It was Morton.




CHAPTER VI

NEW FRIENDS AND OLD

      'Twould be too bad to be true, my dear,
        And wonders never cease;
      Twould be too bad to be true, my dear,
        If all one's swans were geese!


Vivian's startled cry of welcome was heard by Susie, perched on the
stairs with several eager youths gathered as close as might be about
her, and several pairs of hands helped her swift descent to greet her
brother.

Miss Orella, dropping Mr. Dykeman's arm, came flying from the ball-room.

"Oh, Morton! Morton! When did you come? Why didn't you let us know?
Oh, my _dear_ boy!"

She haled him into their special parlor, took his hat away from him,
pulled out the most comfortable chair.

"Have you had supper? And to think that we haven't a room for you! But
there's to be one vacant--next week. I'll see that there is. You
shall have my room, dear boy. Oh, I am so glad to see you!"

Susie gave him a sisterly hug, while he kissed her, somewhat gingerly,
on the cheek, and then she perched herself on the arm of a chair and
gazed upon him with affectionate interest. Vivian gazed also, busily
engaged in fitting present facts to past memories.

Surely he had not looked just like that! The Morton of her girlhood's
dream had a clear complexion, a bright eye, a brave and gallant
look--the voice only had not changed.

But here was Morton in present fact, something taller, it seemed, and
a good deal heavier, well dressed in a rather vivid way, and making
merry over his aunt's devotion.

"Well, if it doesn't seem like old times to have Aunt 'Rella running
'round like a hen with her head cut off, to wait on me." The simile
was not unjust, though certainly ungracious, but his aunt was far too
happy to resent it.

"You sit right still!" she said. "I'll go and bring you some supper.
You must be hungry."

"Now do sit down and hear to reason, Auntie!" he said, reaching out a
detaining hand and pulling her into a seat beside him. "I'm not hungry
a little bit; had a good feed on the diner. Never mind about the
room--I don't know how long I can stay--and I left my grip at the
Allen House anyway. How well you're looking, Auntie! I declare I'd
hardly have known you! And here's little Susie--a regular belle! And
Vivian--don't suppose I dare call you Vivian now, Miss Lane?"

Vivian gave a little embarrassed laugh. If he had used her first name
she would never have noticed it. Now that he asked her, she hardly
knew what answer to make, but presently said:

"Why, of course, I always call you Morton."

"Well, I'll come when you call me," he cheerfully replied, leaning
forward, elbows on knees, and looking around the pretty room.

"How well you're fixed here. Guess it was a wise move, Aunt 'Rella.
But I'd never have dreamed you'd do it. Your Dr. Bellair must have
been a powerful promoter to get you all out here. I wouldn't have
thought anybody in Bainville could move--but me. Why, there's Grandma,
as I live!" and he made a low bow.

Mrs. Pettigrew, hearing of his arrival from the various would-be
partners of the two girls, had come to the door and stood there
regarding him with a non-committal expression. At this address she
frowned perceptibly.

"My name is Mrs. Pettigrew, young man. I've known you since you were a
scallawag in short pants, but I'm no Grandma of yours."

"A thousand pardons! Please excuse me, Mrs. Pettigrew," he said with
exaggerated politeness. "Won't you be seated?" And he set a chair for
her with a flourish.

"Thanks, no," she said. "I'll go back," and went back forthwith,
atten