ctorial uses,
only valuable as part of the composition. He liked one to stand
beside, to put a foot on, to lean over from behind, arms on the back;
to tip up in front of him as if he needed a barricade; and when he was
persuaded to sit in one, it was either facing the back, cross-saddle
and bent forward, or--and this was the utmost decorum he was able to
approach--tipped backward against the wall.

"He does not look well," said the lady, "you are old friends--do tell
me; if it is anything wherein a woman's sympathy would be of service?"

"I'm afraid not, Ma'am," replied Mr. Skee darkly. "Andy's hard hit in
a worse place than his heart. I wouldn't betray a friend's confidence
for any money, Ma'am; but this is all over town. It'll go hard with
Andy, I'm afraid, at his age."

"Oh, I'm so sorry!" she whispered. "So sorry! But surely with a man of
his abilities it will be only a temporary reverse!--"

"Dunno 'bout the abilities--not in this case. Unless he has ability
enough to discover a mine bigger'n the one he's lost! You see, Ma'am,
it's this way," and he sunk his voice to a confidential rumble. "Andy
had a bang-up mine, galena ore--not gold, you understand, but often
pays better. And he kept on putting the money it made back into it to
make more. Then, all of a sudden, it petered out! No more eggs in that
basket. 'Course he can't sell it--now. And last year he refused half a
million. Andy's sure down on his luck."

"But he will recover! You western men are so wonderful! He will find
another mine!"

"O yes, he _may_! Certainly he _may_, Ma'am. Not that he found this
one--he just bought it."

"Well--he can buy another, there are more, aren't there?"

"Sure there are! There's as good mines in the earth as ever was
salted--that's my motto! But Andy's got no more money to buy any
mines. What he had before he inherited. No, Ma'am," said Mr. Skee,
with a sigh. "I'm afraid its all up with Andy Dykeman financially!"

This he said more audibly; and Miss Elder and Miss Pettigrew, sitting in
their parlor, could not help hearing. Miss Elder gave a little gasp and
clasped her hands tightly, but Miss Pettigrew arose, and came outside.

"What's this about Mr. Dykeman?" she questioned abruptly. "Has he had
losses?"

"There now," said Mr. Skee, remorsefully, "I never meant to give him
away like that. Mrs. Pettigrew, Ma'am, I must beg you not to mention it
further. I was only satisfyin' this lady here, in answer to sympathetic
anxiety, as to what was making Andrew H. Dykeman so down in the mouth.
Yes'm--he's lost every cent he had in the world, or is likely to have.
Of course, among friends, he'll get a job fast enough, bookkeepin', or
something like that--though he's not a brilliant man, Andy isn't. You
needn't to feel worried, Mrs. Pettigrew; he'll draw a salary all right,
to the end of time; but he's out of the game of Hot Finance."

Mrs. Pettigrew regarded the speaker with a scintillating eye. He
returned her look with unflinching seriousness. "Have a chair, Ma'am,"
he said. "Let me bring out your rocker. Sit down and chat with us."

"No, thanks," said the old lady. "It seems to me a little--chilly, out
here. I'll go in."

She went in forthwith, to find Miss Orella furtively wiping her eyes.

"What are you crying about, Orella Elder! Just because a man's lost
his money? That happens to most of 'em now and then."

"Yes, I know--but you heard what he said. Oh, I can't believe it! To
think of his having to be provided for by his friends--and having to
take a small salary--after being so well off! I am so sorry for him!"

Miss Elder's sorrow was increased to intensity by noting Mrs. St.
Cloud's changed attitude. Mr. Dykeman made no complaint, uttered no
protest, gave no confidences; but it soon appeared that he was working
in an office; and furthermore that this position was given him by Mr.
Skee.

That gentleman, though discreetly reticent as to his own affairs, now
appeared in far finer raiment than he had hitherto affected; developed
a pronounced taste in fobs and sleeve buttons; and a striking harmony
in socks and scarfs.

Men talked openly of him; no one seemed to know anything definite, but
all were certain that "Old Skee must have struck it rich."

Mr. Skee kept his own counsel; but became munificent in gifts and
entertainments. He produced two imposing presents for Susie; one a
"betrothal gift," the other a conventional wedding present.

"This is a new one to me," he said when he offered her the first; "but
I understand it's the thing. In fact I'm sure of it--for I've
consulted Mrs. St. Cloud and she helped me to buy 'em."

He consulted Mrs. St. Cloud about a dinner he proposed giving to Mr.
Saunders--"one of these Farewell to Egypt affairs," he said. "Not that
I imagine Jim Saunders ever was much of a--Egyptian--but then----!"

He consulted her also about Vivian--did she not think the girl looked
worn and ill? Wouldn't it be a good thing to send her off for a trip
somewhere?

He consulted her about a library; said he had always wanted a library
of his own, but the public ones were somewhat in his way. How many
books did she think a ma