nd meant to meet the call. And he
was near her every day.

After that one fierce outbreak he held himself well in check. He knew
he had startled her then, almost lost her. And with every hour of
their companionship he felt more and more how much she was to him.
Other women he had pursued, overtaken, left behind. He felt that there
was something in Vivian which was beyond him, giving a stir and lift
of aspiration which he genuinely enjoyed.

Day by day he strove to win her full approval, and day by day he did
not neglect the tiny, slow-lapping waves of little tendernesses, small
affectionate liberties at well-chosen moments, always promptly
withdrawing when forbidden, but always beginning again a little
further on.

Dr. Bellair went to Dr. Hale's office and sat herself down solidly in
the patient's chair.

"Dick," she said, "are you going to stand for this?"

"Stand for what, my esteemed but cryptic fellow-practitioner?"

She eyed his calm, reserved countenance with friendly admiration. "You
are an awfully good fellow, Dick, but dull. At the same time dull and
transparent. Are you going to sit still and let that dangerous patient
of yours marry the finest girl in town?"

"Your admiration for girls is always stronger than mine, Jane; and I
have, if you will pardon the boast, more than one patient."

"All right, Dick--if you want it made perfectly clear to your
understanding. Do you mean to let Morton Elder marry Vivian Lane?"

"What business is it of mine?" he demanded, more than
brusquely--savagely.

"You know what he's got."

"I am a physician, not a detective. And I am not Miss Lane's father,
brother, uncle or guardian."

"Or lover," added Dr. Bellair, eyeing him quietly. She thought she saw a
second's flicker of light in the deep gray eyes, a possible tightening
of set lips. "Suppose you are not," she said; "nor even a humanitarian.
You _are_ a member of society. Do you mean to let a man whom you know
has no right to marry, poison the life of that splendid girl?"

He was quite silent for a moment, but she could see the hand on the
farther arm of his chair grip it till the nails were white.

"How do you know he--wishes to marry her?"

"If you were about like other people, you old hermit, you'd know it as
well as anybody. I think they are on the verge of an engagement, if
they aren't over it already. Once more, Dick, shall you do anything?"

"No," said he. Then, as she did not add a word, he rose and walked up
and down the office in big strides, turning upon her at last.

"You know how I feel about this. It is a matter of honor--professional
honor. You women don't seem to know what the word means. I've told
that good-for-nothing young wreck that he has no right to marry for
years yet, if ever. That is all I can do. I will not betray the
confidence of a patient."

"Not if he had smallpox, or scarlet fever, or the bubonic plague?
Suppose a patient of yours had the leprosy, and wanted to marry your
sister, would you betray his confidence?"

"I might kill my sister," he said, glaring at her. "I refuse to argue
with you."

"Yes, I think you'd better refuse," she said, rising. "And you don't
have to kill Vivian Lane, either. A man's honor always seems to want
to kill a woman to satisfy it. I'm glad I haven't got the feeling.
Well, Dick, I thought I'd give you a chance to come to your senses, a
real good chance. But I won't leave you to the pangs of unavailing
remorse, you poor old goose. That young syphilitic is no patient of
mine." And she marched off to perform a difficult duty.

She was very fond of Vivian. The girl's unselfish sweetness of
character and the depth of courage and power she perceived behind the
sensitive, almost timid exterior, appealed to her. If she had had a
daughter, perhaps she would have been like that. If she had had a
daughter would she not have thanked anyone who would try to save her
from such a danger? From that worse than deadly peril, because of
which she had no daughter.

Dr. Bellair was not the only one who watched Morton's growing devotion
with keen interest. To his aunt it was a constant joy. From the time her
boisterous little nephew had come to rejoice her heart and upset her
immaculate household arrangements, and had played, pleasantly though
tyrannically, with the little girl next door, Miss Orella had dreamed
this romance for him. To have it fail was part of her grief when he left
her, to have it now so visibly coming to completion was a deep delight.

If she had been blind to his faults, she was at least vividly
conscious of the present sudden growth of virtues. She beamed at him
with affectionate pride, and her manner to Mrs. Pettigrew was one of
barely subdued "I told you so." Indeed, she could not restrain herself
altogether, but spoke to that lady with tender triumph of how lovely
it was to have Morton so gentle and nice.

"You never did like the boy, I know, but you must admit that he is
behaving beautifully now."

"I will," said the old lady; "I'll admit it without reservation. He's
behaving beautifully--now. But I'm not going to talk about him--to
you, Orella." So she rolled up her k