d now made explanation.

They knew well we would make for our machine, and also that there was no
other way of getting down--alive. So our flight had troubled no one; all
they did was to call the inhabitants to keep an eye on our movements all
along the edge of the forest between the two points. It appeared that
many of those nights we had been seen, by careful ladies sitting snugly
in big trees by the riverbed, or up among the rocks.

Terry looked immensely disgusted, but it struck me as extremely funny.
Here we had been risking our lives, hiding and prowling like outlaws,
living on nuts and fruit, getting wet and cold at night, and dry and hot
by day, and all the while these estimable women had just been waiting
for us to come out.

Now they began to explain, carefully using such words as we could
understand. It appeared that we were considered as guests of the
country--sort of public wards. Our first violence had made it necessary
to keep us safeguarded for a while, but as soon as we learned the
language--and would agree to do no harm--they would show us all about
the land.

Jeff was eager to reassure them. Of course he did not tell on Terry, but
he made it clear that he was ashamed of himself, and that he would now
conform. As to the language--we all fell upon it with redoubled energy.
They brought us books, in greater numbers, and I began to study them
seriously.

"Pretty punk literature," Terry burst forth one day, when we were in
the privacy of our own room. "Of course one expects to begin on
child-stories, but I would like something more interesting now."

"Can't expect stirring romance and wild adventure without men, can you?"
I asked. Nothing irritated Terry more than to have us assume that there
were no men; but there were no signs of them in the books they gave us,
or the pictures.

"Shut up!" he growled. "What infernal nonsense you talk! I'm going to
ask 'em outright--we know enough now."

In truth we had been using our best efforts to master the language, and
were able to read fluently and to discuss what we read with considerable
ease.

That afternoon we were all sitting together on the roof--we three and
the tutors gathered about a table, no guards about. We had been made to
understand some time earlier that if we would agree to do no violence
they would withdraw their constant attendance, and we promised most
willingly.

So there we sat, at ease; all in similar dress; our hair, by now, as
long as theirs, only our beards to distinguish us. We did not want those
beards, but had so far been unable to induce them to give us any cutting
instruments.

"Ladies," Terry began, out of a clear sky, as it were, "are there no men
in this country?"

"Men?" Somel answered. "Like you?"

"Yes, men," Terry indicated his beard, and threw back his broad
shoulders. "Men, real men."

"No," she answered quietly. "There are no men in this country. There has
not been a man among us for two thousand years."

Her look was clear and truthful and she did not advance this astonishing
statement as if it was astonishing, but quite as a matter of fact.

"But--the people--the children," he protested, not believing her in the
least, but not wishing to say so.

"Oh yes," she smiled. "I do not wonder you are puzzled. We are
mothers--all of us--but there are no fathers. We thought you would ask
about that long ago--why have you not?" Her look was as frankly kind as
always, her tone quite simple.

Terry explained that we had not felt sufficiently used to the language,
making rather a mess of it, I thought, but Jeff was franker.

"Will you excuse us all," he said, "if we admit that we find it hard to
believe? There is no such--possibility--in the rest of the world."

"Have you no kind of life where it is possible?" asked Zava.

"Why, yes--some low forms, of course."

"How low--or how high, rather?"

"Well--there are some rather high forms of insect life in which it
occurs. Parthenogenesis, we call it--that means virgin birth."

She could not follow him.

"BIRTH, we know, of course; but what is VIRGIN?"

Terry looked uncomfortable, but Jeff met the question quite calmly.
"Among mating animals, the term VIRGIN is applied to the female who has
not mated," he answered.

"Oh, I see. And does it apply to the male also? Or is there a different
term for him?"

He passed this over rather hurriedly, saying that the same term would
apply, but was seldom used.

"No?" she said. "But one cannot mate without the other surely. Is not
each then--virgin--before mating? And, tell me, have you any forms of
life in which there is birth from a father only?"

"I know of none," he answered, and I inquired seriously.

"You ask us to believe that for two thousand years there have been only
women here, and only girl babies born?"

"Exactly," answered Somel, nodding gravely. "Of course we know that
among other animals it is not so, that there are fathers as well as
mothers; and we see that you are fathers, that you come from a people
who are of both kinds. We have been waiting, you see, for you to be able
to speak freely with us, and teach us about your country and the rest 