l;
and the tennis court and tether-ball ring showed the ground well used.

Grandma looked about her with a keen interrogative eye, and was much
impressed, as, indeed, were they all. She voiced their feelings
justly when, the true inwardness of this pleasant home bursting fully
upon them, she exclaimed:

"Well, of all things! A man keeping house!"

"Why not?" asked Dr. Hale with his dry smile. "Is there any
deficiency, mental or physical, about a man, to prevent his attempting
this abstruse art?"

She looked at him sharply. "I don't know about deficiency, but there
seems to be somethin' about 'em that keeps 'em out of the business. I
guess it's because women are so cheap."

"No doubt you are right, Mrs. Pettigrew. And here women are scarce and
high. Hence my poor efforts."

His poor efforts had bought or built a roomy pleasant house, and
furnished it with a solid comfort and calm attractiveness that was
most satisfying. Two Chinamen did the work; cooking, cleaning,
washing, waiting on table, with silent efficiency. "They are as steady
as eight-day clocks," said Dr. Hale. "I pay them good wages and they
are worth it."

"Sun here had to go home once--to be married, also, to see his honored
parents, I believe, and to leave a grand-'Sun' to attend to the
ancestors; but he brought in another Chink first and trained him so
well that I hardly noticed the difference. Came back in a year or so,
and resumed his place without a jar."

Miss Elder watched with fascinated eyes these soft-footed servants
with clean, white garments and shiny coils of long, braided hair.

"I may have to come to it," she admitted, "but--dear me, it doesn't
seem natural to have a man doing housework!"

Dr. Hale smiled again. "You don't want men to escape from dependence, I
see. Perhaps, if more men knew how comfortably they could live without
women, the world would be happier." There was a faint wire-edge to his
tone, in spite of the courteous expression, but Miss Elder did not
notice it and if Mrs. Pettigrew did, she made no comment.

They noted the varied excellences of his housekeeping with high
approval.

"You certainly know how, Dr. Hale," said Miss Orella; "I particularly
admire these beds--with the sheets buttoned down, German fashion,
isn't it? What made you do that?"

"I've slept so much in hotels," he answered; "and found the sheets
always inadequate to cover the blankets--and the marks of other men's
whiskers! I don't like blankets in my neck. Besides it saves washing."

Mrs. Pettigrew nodded vehemently. "You have sense," she said.

The labor-saving devices were a real surprise to them. A "chute" for
soiled clothing shot from the bathroom on each floor to the laundry in
the basement; a dumbwaiter of construction large and strong enough to
carry trunks, went from cellar to roof; the fireplaces dropped their
ashes down mysterious inner holes; and for the big one in the
living-room a special "lift" raised a box of wood up to the floor
level, hidden by one of the "settles."

"Saves work--saves dirt--saves expense," said Dr. Hale.

Miss Hale and her niece secretly thought the rooms rather bare, but
Dr. Bellair was highly in favor of that very feature.

"You see Dick don't believe in jimcracks and dirt-catchers, and he
likes sunlight. Books all under glass--no curtains to wash and darn
and fuss with--none of those fancy pincushions and embroidered
thingummies--I quite envy him."

"Why don't you have one yourself, Johnny?" he asked her.

"Because I don't like housekeeping," she said, "and you do. Masculine
instinct, I suppose!"

"Huh!" said Mrs. Pettigrew with her sudden one-syllable chuckle.

The girls followed from room to room, scarce noticing these comments, or
the eager politeness of the four pleasant-faced young fellows who formed
the doctor's present family. She could not but note the intelligent
efficiency of the place, but felt more deeply the underlying spirit, the
big-brotherly kindness which prompted his hospitable care of these nice
boys. It was delightful to hear them praise him.

"O, he's simply great," whispered Archie Burns, a ruddy-cheeked young
Scotchman. "He pretends there's nothing to it--that he wants
company--that we pay for all we get--and that sort of thing, you know;
but this is no boarding house, I can tell you!" And then he flushed till
his very hair grew redder--remembering that the guests came from one.

"Of course not!" Vivian cordially agreed with him. "You must have
lovely times here. I don't wonder you appreciate it!" and she smiled
so sweetly that he felt at ease again.

Beneath all this cheery good will and the gay chatter of the group her
quick sense caught an impression of something hidden and repressed.
She felt the large and quiet beauty of the rooms; the smooth comfort,
the rational, pleasant life; but still more she felt a deep keynote of
loneliness.

The pictures told her most. She noted one after another with inward
comment.

"There's 'Persepolis,'" she said to herself--"loneliness incarnate;
and that other lion-and-ruin thing,--loneliness and decay. Gerome's
'Lion in the Desert,' too, the same thing. Then Daniel-