eally a servant,--we cannot expect ladies to take such
positions. And--this ought to be bracketted with that last--since we
cannot, of course, pay more than so much, that is against ladies doing
it, too. Some people can, I know. Jessie told me of a very nice girl
she knew,--a classmate in college and a trained kindergartner,--who
was unable to get such a position as she wanted, and took a place with
some very rich people as a sort of lady nurse-teacher to the children.
But she said it was perfectly horrid, especially in travelling, having
to eat with servants and be treated as such. I can see that it would
take a kind of heroism, and we cannot really count on heroic
nurse-maids. No, it has to be from the lower classes that we take our
nurse-maids. I think that is proved. The average employer simply
couldn't pay them enough to attract a higher class of labour. These
are really questions of political economy in part, you see.

The ordinary young girl of the lower classes,--that is the raw
material of our nurse-maid. Naturally, she is ill-mannered or
unmannered, and careless and ignorant and all those things. Therefore,
we must train her. In order to do that, we must first provide the
training school, and, second, make her go to it. Now I wonder how we
could do that. The higher wages would be an object of course: that
would have to be insisted on. And we might "create a sentiment."
That's it! That's what we must do,--create a sentiment.

But it's no use doing anything till we've got the school. And I worked
that out as having to be done by private endowment. That involves
agitation, of course; and we must set about it. We can get teachers
plenty, there is so much interest in child-study now; and it will be a
splendid thing for the lower classes to take their young girls and
train them thoroughly in the theory of child-culture. It will make
them so much better mothers afterward, when they do marry, after
spending some years in taking care of our children,--putting their
theories in practice! But wait. That looks queer. Looks as if the rich
people were furnishing elaborate instruction free,--to young women of
the lower classes,--and then paying them good wages for practising on
the children of the upper classes, so that the poor women might be
better mothers afterward.

I must have made a mistake somewhere. I'm going to reverse that
position, and see how it would work. Suppose young girls of the upper
classes took elaborate instruction in child-culture, and then
practised on the children of the lower classes, in order to be better
mothers afterward. That seems more satisfactory, somehow; yet it means
a lot of work. It would do our girls good--I can see that--and do the
children of the lower classes good, and, no doubt, make the girls
better mothers. Besides, I'm wasting time,--"arguing in a circle,"
John would say; for that upper-class-girl hypothesis wouldn't give us
nurse-maids. Now where was I? Mothers have to have help; _i.e._,
nurse-maids. These have to be private servants at low wages:
therefore, ladies would not do it. Therefore, we must have our
children taken care of by girls from the lower classes. They are not
suitable persons to take care of children as they stand: therefore, we
must train them.

Now I mean to really work for this thing,--to create a sentiment. I'll
begin early in the autumn, as soon as we get back. And I'm so glad I'm
going to have such a lovely summer to make me fit for it. You see I'm
very much pulled down. Little John has been such a care, and the
nurse-maids I've had have been so unreliable. Why, the child has been
sick again and again just through their carelessness. I'm sure of it.
And mother said I simply must go away and build up, for the child's
own sake; and John agreed with her--for once. And there's such a
lovely arrangement for the summer: nothing ever happened more
conveniently. You see Jessie is such an enthusiast about children. And
she has planned to be at home this summer. Our home is perfectly
lovely, anyway, and very healthy,--quite in the country, and yet
within easy reach of town. They're going to have the Summer School of
Child-study there at Seabay this year, and Jessie has several of her
class visiting her. And she said, in her solemn, funny way, that they
must have specimens to work on,--first-class specimens! She insisted
on little John, of course, and she's persuaded Clara and George to let
her have their three for a while; and the little MacAdoos are to be
there, too. It will be a regular picnic for the children. It took a
long time to bring me round to it. But, then, it's my own lovely home.
I know how healthy it is. And mother will be there. And one of
Jessie's friends is a doctor, and in a children's hospital, too. She
ought to see that everything is right for their health. So, if they
are happy in that lovely old place, and healthy and well taught and
safe, why, I suppose I can leave.

Of course, I wouldn't for anything on earth but health. Mrs. Wells was
perfectly horrified when I told her. They asked Cassie, too; but she
wouldn't hear of it. She said nothing but dea