ng on duty," the doctor was saying, "Why can't you
see a real duty in this? I tell you, the place is full of men that need
mothering, and sistering--good honest sweethearting and marrying, too.
Come on, Rella. Do bigger work than you've ever done yet--and, as I
said, bring both these nice girls with you. What do you say, Miss Lane?"

Vivian turned to her, her fine face flushed with hope, yet with a
small Greek fret on the broad forehead.

"I'd like to, very much, Dr. Bellair--on some accounts. But----" She
could not quite voice her dim objections, her obscure withdrawals; and
so fell back on the excuse of childhood--"I'm sure Mother wouldn't let
me."

Dr. Bellair smiled broadly.

"Aren't you over twenty-one?" she asked.

"I'm twenty-five," the girl replied, with proud acceptance of a life
long done--as one who owned to ninety-seven.

"And self-supporting?" pursued the doctor.

Vivian flushed.

"No--not yet," she answered; "but I mean to be."

"Exactly! Now's your chance. Break away now, my dear, and come West. You
can get work--start a kindergarten, or something. I know you love
children."

The girl's heart rose within her in a great throb of hope.

"Oh--if I _could_!" she exclaimed, and even as she said it, rose
half-conscious memories of the low, sweet tones of Mrs. St. Cloud. "It
is a woman's place to wait--and to endure."

She heard a step on the walk outside--looked out.

"Why, here is Mrs. St. Cloud!" she cried.

"Guess I'll clear out," said the doctor, as Susie ran to the door. She
was shy, socially.

"Nonsense, Jane," said her hostess, whispering. "Mrs. St. Cloud is no
stranger. She's Mrs. Williams' sister--been here for years."

She came in at the word, her head and shoulders wreathed in a pearl
gray shining veil, her soft long robe held up.

"I saw your light, Miss Elder, and thought I'd stop in for a moment.
Good evening, Mrs. Pettigrew--and Miss Susie. Ah! Vivian!"

"This is my friend, Dr. Bellair--Mrs. St. Cloud," Miss Elder was
saying. But Dr. Bellair bowed a little stiffly, not coming forward.

"I've met Mrs. St. Cloud before, I think--when she was 'Mrs. James.'"

The lady's face grew sad.

"Ah, you knew my first husband! I lost him--many years ago--typhoid
fever."

"I think I heard," said the doctor. And then, feeling that some
expression of sympathy was called for, she added, "Too bad."

Not all Miss Elder's gentle hospitality, Mrs. Pettigrew's bright-eyed
interest, Susie's efforts at polite attention, and Vivian's visible
sympathy could compensate Mrs. St. Cloud for one inimical presence.

"You must have been a mere girl in those days," she said sweetly.
"What a lovely little town it was--under the big trees."

"It certainly was," the doctor answered dryly.

"There is such a fine atmosphere in a college town, I think," pursued
the lady. "Especially in a co-educational town--don't you think so?"

Vivian was a little surprised. She had had an idea that her admired
friend did not approve of co-education. She must have been mistaken.

"Such a world of old memories as you call up, Dr. Bellair," their
visitor pursued. "Those quiet, fruitful days! You remember Dr. Black's
lectures? Of course you do, better than I. What a fine man he was! And
the beautiful music club we had one Winter--and my little private
dancing class--do you remember that? Such nice boys, Miss Elder! I
used to call them my acolytes."

Susie gave a little gulp, and coughed to cover it.

"I guess you'll have to excuse me, ladies," said Dr. Bellair.
"Good-night." And she walked upstairs.

Vivian's face flushed and paled and flushed again. A cold pain was
trying to enter her heart, and she was trying to keep it out. Her
grandmother glanced sharply from one face to the other.

"Glad to've met you, Mrs. St. Cloud," she said, bobbing up with
decision. "Good-night, Rella--and Susie. Come on child. It's a wonder
your mother hasn't sent after us."

For once Vivian was glad to go.

"That's a good scheme of Jane Bellair's, don't you think so?" asked
the old lady as they shut the gate behind them.

"I--why yes--I don't see why not."

Vivian was still dizzy with the blow to her heart's idol. All the
soft, still dream-world she had so labored to keep pure and beautiful
seemed to shake and waver swimmingly. She could not return to it. The
flat white face of her home loomed before her, square, hard, hideously
unsympathetic--

"Grandma," said she, stopping that lady suddenly and laying a pleading
hand on her arm, "Grandma, I believe I'll go."

Mrs. Pettigrew nodded decisively.

"I thought you would," she said.

"Do you blame me, Grandma?"

"Not a mite, child. Not a mite. But I'd sleep on it, if I were you."

And Vivian slept on it--so far as she slept at all.




CHAPTER IV

TRANSPLANTED

      Sometimes a plant in its own habitat
        Is overcrowded, starved, oppressed and daunted;
      A palely feeble thing; yet rises quickly,
        Growing in height and vigor, blooming thickly,
                  When far transplanted.


The days between Vivian's decision and her departure were harder than
she had foreseen. It took some courage to make the choice. Had sh