, she might have quoted the explanation of the homely widow of
three husbands when questioned by the good-looking spinster, who
closed her inquiry by saying aggrievedly, "And ye'r na sae bonny."

"It's na the bonny that does it," explained the triple widow, "It's
the come hither i' the een."

Susie's eyes sparkled with the "come hither," but those who came
failed to make any marked progress. She was somewhat more cautious
after the sudden approach and overthrow of Mr. A. Smith; yet more than
one young gentleman boarder found business called him elsewhere, with
marked suddenness; his place eagerly taken by another. The Cottonwoods
had a waiting list, now.

Vivian made friends first, lovers afterward. Then if the love proved
vain, the friendship had a way of lingering. Hers was one of those
involved and over-conscientious characters, keenly sensitive to the
thought of duty and to others, pain. She could not play with hearts
that might be hurt in the handling, nor could she find in herself a
quick and simple response to the appeals made to her; there were so
many things to be considered.

Morton studied her with more intensity than he had ever before devoted
to another human being; his admiration and respect grew with
acquaintance, and all that was best in him rose in response to her
wise, sweet womanliness. He had the background of their childhood's
common experiences and her early sentiment--how much he did not know,
to aid him. Then there was the unknown country of his years of
changeful travel, many tales that he could tell her, many more which
he found he could not.

He pressed his advantage, cautiously, finding the fullest response
when he used the appeal to her uplifting influence. When they talked
in the dining-room the sombre eye at the peephole watched with growing
disapproval. The kitchen was largely left to her and her son by her
fellow workers, on account of their nervous dislike for Theophile, and
she utilized her opportunities.

Vivian had provided the boy with some big bright picture blocks, and
he spent happy hours in matching them on the white scoured table,
while his mother sewed, and watched. He had forgotten his burn by now,
and she sewed contentedly for there was no one talking to her young
lady but Dr. Hale, who lingered unaccountably.

To be sure, Vivian had brought him a plate of cakes from the pantry,
and he seemed to find the little brown things efficiently seductive,
or perhaps it was Grandma who held him, sitting bolt upright in her
usual place, at the head of one table, and asking a series of firm but
friendly questions. This she found the only way of inducing Dr. Hale
to talk at all.

Yes, he was going away--Yes, he would be gone some time--A matter of
weeks, perhaps--He could not say--His boys were all well--He did not
wonder that they saw a good deal of them--It was a good place for them
to come.

"You might come oftener yourself," said Grandma, "and play real whist
with me. These young people play _Bridge_!" She used this word with
angry scorn, as symbol of all degeneracy; and also despised pinochle,
refusing to learn it, though any one could induce her to play bezique.
Some of the more venturous and argumentative, strove to persuade her
that the games were really the same.

"You needn't tell me," Mrs. Pettigrew would say, "I don't want to play
any of your foreign games."

"But, Madam, bezique is not an English word," Professor Toomey had
insisted, on one occasion; to which she had promptly responded,
"Neither is 'bouquet!'"

Dr. Hale shook his head with a smile. He had a very nice smile, even
Vivian admitted that. All the hard lines of his face curved and
melted, and the light came into those deep-set eyes and shone warmly.

"I should enjoy playing whist with you very often, Mrs. Pettigrew; but
a doctor has no time to call his own. And a good game of whist must
not be interrupted by telephones."

"There's Miss Orella!" said Grandma, as the front door was heard to
open. "She's getting to be quite a gadder."

"It does her good, I don't doubt," the doctor gravely remarked, rising
to go. Miss Orella met him in the hall, and bade him good-bye with
regret. "We do not see much of you, doctor; I hope you'll be back soon."

"Why it's only a little trip; you good people act as if I were going
to Alaska," he said, "It makes me feel as if I had a family!"

"Pity you haven't," remarked Grandma with her usual definiteness.
Dykeman stood holding Miss Orella's wrap, with his dry smile. "Good-bye,
Hale," he said. "I'll chaperon your orphan asylum for you. So long."

"Come out into the dining-room," said Miss Orella, after Dr. Hale had
departed. "I know you must be hungry," and Mr. Dykeman did not deny it.
In his quiet middle-aged way, he enjoyed this enlarged family circle as
much as the younger fellows, and he and Mr. Unwin seemed to vie with one
another to convince Miss Orella that life still held charms for her. Mr.
Skee also hovered about her to a considerable extent, but most of his
devotion was bestowed upon damsels of extreme youth.

"Here's one that's hungry, anyhow," remarked Dr. Bellair, coming out
o