eauty
and power of the love they gave us.

Even Alima--who had a more stormy temperament than either of the others,
and who, heaven knows, had far more provocation--even Alima was patience
and tenderness and wisdom personified to the man she loved, until
he--but I haven't got to that yet.


These, as Terry put it, "alleged or so-called wives" of ours, went right
on with their profession as foresters. We, having no special learnings,
had long since qualified as assistants. We had to do something, if only
to pass the time, and it had to be work--we couldn't be playing forever.

This kept us out of doors with those dear girls, and more or less
together--too much together sometimes.

These people had, it now became clear to us, the highest, keenest, most
delicate sense of personal privacy, but not the faintest idea of that
SOLITUDE A DEUX we are so fond of. They had, every one of them, the "two
rooms and a bath" theory realized. From earliest childhood each had
a separate bedroom with toilet conveniences, and one of the marks of
coming of age was the addition of an outer room in which to receive
friends.

Long since we had been given our own two rooms apiece, and as being of a
different sex and race, these were in a separate house. It seemed to be
recognized that we should breathe easier if able to free our minds in
real seclusion.

For food we either went to any convenient eating-house, ordered a meal
brought in, or took it with us to the woods, always and equally good.
All this we had become used to and enjoyed--in our courting days.

After marriage there arose in us a somewhat unexpected urge of feeling
that called for a separate house; but this feeling found no response in
the hearts of those fair ladies.

"We ARE alone, dear," Ellador explained to me with gentle patience.
"We are alone in these great forests; we may go and eat in any little
summer-house--just we two, or have a separate table anywhere--or even
have a separate meal in our own rooms. How could we be aloner?"

This was all very true. We had our pleasant mutual solitude about our
work, and our pleasant evening talks in their apartments or ours; we
had, as it were, all the pleasures of courtship carried right on; but we
had no sense of--perhaps it may be called possession.

"Might as well not be married at all," growled Terry. "They only got up
that ceremony to please us--please Jeff, mostly. They've no real idea of
being married."

I tried my best to get Ellador's point of view, and naturally I tried to
give her mine. Of course, what we, as men, wanted to make them see was
that there were other, and as we proudly said "higher," uses in this
relation than what Terry called "mere parentage." In the highest terms I
knew I tried to explain this to Ellador.

"Anything higher than for mutual love to hope to give life, as we did?"
she said. "How is it higher?"

"It develops love," I explained. "All the power of beautiful permanent
mated love comes through this higher development."

"Are you sure?" she asked gently. "How do you know that it was so
developed? There are some birds who love each other so that they mope
and pine if separated, and never pair again if one dies, but they never
mate except in the mating season. Among your people do you find high and
lasting affection appearing in proportion to this indulgence?"

It is a very awkward thing, sometimes, to have a logical mind.

Of course I knew about those monogamous birds and beasts too, that mate
for life and show every sign of mutual affection, without ever having
stretched the sex relationship beyond its original range. But what of
it?

"Those are lower forms of life!" I protested. "They have no capacity
for faithful and affectionate, and apparently happy--but oh, my dear! my
dear!--what can they know of such a love as draws us together? Why, to
touch you--to be near you--to come closer and closer--to lose myself in
you--surely you feel it too, do you not?"

I came nearer. I seized her hands.

Her eyes were on mine, tender radiant, but steady and strong. There was
something so powerful, so large and changeless, in those eyes that
I could not sweep her off her feet by my own emotion as I had
unconsciously assumed would be the case.

It made me feel as, one might imagine, a man might feel who loved a
goddess--not a Venus, though! She did not resent my attitude, did not
repel it, did not in the least fear it, evidently. There was not a shade
of that timid withdrawal or pretty resistance which are so--provocative.

"You see, dearest," she said, "you have to be patient with us. We are
not like the women of your country. We are Mothers, and we are People,
but we have not specialized in this line."

"We" and "we" and "we"--it was so hard to get her to be personal. And,
as I thought that, I suddenly remembered how we were always criticizing
OUR women for BEING so personal.

Then I did my earnest best to picture to her the sweet intense joy of
married lovers, and the result in higher stimulus to all creative work.

"Do you mean," she asked quite calmly, as if I was not holding her cool
firm hands in my hot and rather q