-more lions,
more loneliness, but power. 'Circe and the Companions of
Ulysses'--cruel, but loneliness and power again--of a sort. There's
that 'Island of Death' too--a beautiful thing--but O dear!--And young
Burne-Jones' 'Vampire' was in one of the bedrooms--that one he shut
the door of!"

While they ate and drank in the long, low-ceiled wide-windowed room
below, she sought the bookcases and looked them over curiously.
Yes--there was Marcus Aurelius, Epictetus, Plato, Emerson and
Carlisle--the great German philosophers, the French, the English--all
showing signs of use.

Dr. Hale observed her inspection. It seemed to vaguely annoy him, as
if someone were asking too presuming questions.

"Interested in philosophy, Miss Lane?" he asked, drily, coming toward
her.

"Yes--so far as I understand it," she answered.

"And how far does that go?"

She felt the inference, and raised her soft eyes to his rather
reproachfully.

"Not far, I am afraid. But I do know that these books teach one how to
bear trouble."

He met her gaze steadily, but something seemed to shut, deep in his
eyes. They looked as unassailable as a steel safe. He straightened his
big shoulders with a defiant shrug, and returned to sit by Mrs.
Pettigrew, to whom he made himself most agreeable.

The four young men did the honors of the tea table, with devotion to
all; and some especially intended for the younger ladies. Miss Elder
cried out in delight at the tea.

"Where did you get it, Dr. Hale? Can it be had here?"

"I'm afraid not. That is a particular brand. Sun brought me a chest of
it when he came from his visit."

When they went home each lady was given a present, Chinese
fashion--lychee nuts for Sue, lily-bulbs for Vivian, a large fan for
Mrs. Pettigrew, and a package of the wonderful tea for Miss Orella.

"That's a splendid thing for him to do," she said, as they walked
back. "Such a safe place for those boys!"

"It's lovely of him," Sue agreed. "I don't care if he is a
woman-hater."

Vivian said nothing, but admitted, on being questioned, that "he was
very interesting."

Mrs. Pettigrew was delighted with their visit. "I like this country,"
she declared. "Things are different. A man couldn't do that in
Bainville--he'd be talked out of town."

That night she sought Dr. Bellair and questioned her.

"Tell me about that man," she demanded. "How old is he?"

"Not as old as he looks by ten years," said the doctor. "No, I can't
tell you why his hair's gray."

"What woman upset him?" asked the old lady.

Dr. Bellair regarded her thoughtfully. "He has made me no confidences,
Mrs. Pettigrew, but I think you are right. It must have been a severe
shock--for he is very bitter against women. It is a shame, too, for he
is one of the best of men. He prefers men patients--and gets them. The
women he will treat if he must, but he is kindest to the 'fallen' ones,
and inclined to sneer at the rest. And yet he's the straightest man I
ever knew. I'm thankful to have him come here so much. He needs it."

Mrs. Pettigrew marched off, nodding sagely. She felt a large and growing
interest in her new surroundings, more especially in the numerous boys,
but was somewhat amazed at her popularity among them. These young men
were mainly exiles from home; the older ones, though more settled
perhaps, had been even longer away from their early surroundings; and a
real live Grandma, as Jimmy Saunders said, was an "attraction."

"If you were mine," he told her laughingly, "I'd get a pianist and
some sort of little side show, and exhibit you all up and down the
mountains!--for good money. Why some of the boys never had a Grandma,
and those that did haven't seen one since they were kids!"

"Very complimentary, I'm sure--but impracticable," said the old lady.

The young men came to her with confidences, they asked her advice,
they kept her amused with tales of their adventures; some true, some
greatly diversified; and she listened with a shrewd little smile and a
wag of the head--so they never were quite sure whether they were
"fooling" Grandma or not.

To her, as a general confidant, came Miss Peeder with a tale of woe. The
little hall that she rented for her dancing classes had burned down on a
windy Sunday, and there was no other suitable and within her means.

"There's Sloan's; but it's over a barroom--it's really not possible.
And Baker's is too expensive. The church rooms they won't let for
dancing--I don't know what I _am_ to do, Mrs. Pettigrew!"

"Why don't you ask Orella Elder to rent you her dining-room--it's big
enough. They could move the tables----"

Miss Peeder's eyes opened in hopeful surprise. "Oh, if she _would_! Do
_you_ think she would? It would be ideal."

Miss Elder being called upon, was quite fluttered by the proposition,
and consulted Dr. Bellair.

"Why not?" said that lady. "Dancing is first rate exercise--good for
us all. Might as well have the girls dance here under your eye as
going out all the time--and it's some addition to the income. They'll
pay extra for refreshments, too. I'd do it."

With considerable trepidation Miss Orella consented, and their first
"class night" w