t. Then she arose and walked nervously
across the floor, returning presently.

"Mrs. St. Cloud----"

"Call me Adela, my dear."

"Adela--dear Adela--you--you have been married. I have no mother. Tell
me, ought not there to be more--more love? I'm fond of Morton, of
course, and I do want to help him--but surely, if I loved him--I
should feel happier--more sure!"

"The first part of love is often very confusing, my dear. I'll tell
you how it is: just because you are a woman grown and feel your
responsibilities, especially here, where you have so many men friends,
you keep Morton at a distance. Then the external sort of cousinly
affection you have for him rather blinds you to other feelings. But I
have not forgotten--and I'm sure you have not--the memory of that hot,
sweet night so long ago; the world swimming in summer moonlight and
syringa sweetness; the stillness everywhere--and your first kiss!"

Vivian started to her feet. She moved to the window and stood awhile;
came back and kissed her friend warmly, and went away without another
word.

The lady betook herself to her toilet, and spent some time on it, for
there was one of Miss Peeder's classes that night.

Mrs. St. Cloud danced with many, but most with Mr. Dykeman; no woman
in the room had her swimming grace of motion, and yet, with all the
throng of partners about her she had time to see Susie's bright head
bobbing about beneath Mr. Saunders down-bent, happy face, and Vivian,
with her eyes cast down, dancing with Morton, whose gaze never left
her. He was attention itself, he brought her precisely the supper she
liked, found her favorite corner to rest in, took her to sit on the
broad piazza between dances, remained close to her, still talking
earnestly, when all the outsiders had gone.

Vivian found it hard to sleep that night. All that he had said of his
new hope, new power, new courage, bore out Mrs. St. Cloud's bright
promise of a new-built life. And some way, as she had listened and did
not forbid, the touch of his hand, the pressure of his arm, grew
warmer and brought back the memories of that summer night so long ago.

He had begged hard for a kiss before he left her, and she quite had to
tear herself away, as Susie drifted in, also late; and Aunt Orella said
they must all go to bed right away--she was tired if they were not.

She did look tired. This dance seemed somehow less agreeable to her
than had others. She took off her new prettinesses and packed them
away in a box in the lower drawer.

"I'm an old fool!" she said. "Trying to dress up like a girl. I'm
ashamed of myself!" Quite possibly she did not sleep well either, yet
she had no room-mate to keep her awake by babbling on, as Susie did to
Vivian.

Her discourse was first, last and always about Jimmie Saunders. He had
said this, he had looked that, he had done so; and what did Vivian
think he meant? And wasn't he handsome--and _so_ clever!

Little Susie cuddled close and finally dropped off asleep, her arms
around Vivian. But the older girl counted the hours; her head, or her
heart, in a whirl.

Morton Elder was wakeful, too. So much so that he arose with a
whispered expletive, took his shoes in his hand, and let himself
softly out for a tramp in the open.

This was not the first of his love affairs, but with all his hot young
heart he wished it was. He stood still, alone on the high stretches of
moonlit mesa and looked up at the measureless, brilliant spaces above
him.

"I'll keep straight--if I can have her!" he repeated under his breath.
"I will! I will!"

It had never occurred to him before to be ashamed of the various
escapades of his youth. He had done no more than others, many others.
None of "the boys" he associated with intended to do what was wrong;
they were quite harsh in judgment of those who did, according to their
standards. None of them had been made acquainted with the social or
pathological results of their amusements, and the mere "Zutritt ist
Verboten" had never impressed them at all.

But now the gentler influences of his childhood, even the narrow
morality of Bainville, rose in pleasant colors in his mind. He wished
he had saved his money, instead of spending it faster than it came in.
He wished he had kept out of poker and solo and barrooms generally. He
wished, in a dumb, shamed way, that he could come to her as clean as
she was. But he threw his shoulders back and lifted his head
determinedly.

"I'll be good to her," he determined; "I'll make her a good husband."

In the days that followed his devotion was as constant as before, but
more intelligent. His whole manner changed and softened. He began to
read the books she liked, and to talk about them. He was gentler to
everyone, more polite, even to the waitresses, tender and thoughtful
of his aunt and sister. Vivian began to feel a pride in him, and in
her influence, deepening as time passed.

Mrs. Pettigrew, visiting the library on one of her frequent errands,
was encountered there and devotedly escorted home by Mr. Skee.

"That is a most fascinating young lady who has Mr. Dykeman's room;
don't you think so, ma'am?" quoth he.

"I d