. There was the
betrothed couple, there were the honored guests; there were Jimmie and
Susie, with or without the baby; there were the Dykemans; there was
Dr. Bellair, of course; there was Mr. Skee, an even number.

"I'm sorry to spoil that table, but I've got to take in Mrs. St.
Cloud," said the old lady.

"O, Grandma! Why! It'll spoil it for Dick."

"Huh!" said her grandmother. "He's so happy you couldn't spoil it with
a mummy. If I don't ask her it'll spoil it for Mr. Skee."

So Mrs. St. Cloud made an eleventh at the feast, and neither Mr.
Dykeman nor Vivian could find it in their happy hearts to care.

Mr. Skee arose, looking unusually tall and shapely in immaculate
every-day dress, his well-brushed hair curling vigorously around the
little bald spots; his smile wide and benevolent.

"Ladies and Gentlemen, both Domestic and Foreign, Friends and
Fellowtownsmen and Women--Ladies, God Bless 'em; also Children, if
any: I feel friendly enough to-night to include the beasts of the
fields--but such would be inappropriate at this convivial board--among
these convivial boarders.

"This is an occasion of great rejoicing. We have many things to
rejoice over, both great _and_ small. We have our healths; all of us,
apparently. We are experiencing the joys of reunion--in the matter of
visiting parents that is, and long absent daughters.

"We have also the Return of the Native, in the shape of my old friend
Andy--now become a Benedict--and seeming to enjoy it. About this same
Andy I have a piece of news to give you which will cause you
astonishment and gratification, but which involves me in a profuse
apology--a most sincere and general apology.

"You know how a year or more ago it was put about in this town that
Andrew Dykeman was a ruined man?" Mrs. St. Cloud darted a swift glance
at Mr. Dykeman, but his eyes rested calmly on his wife; then at Mr.
Skee--but he was pursuing his remorseful way.

"I do not wish to blame my friend Andy for his reticence--but he
certainly did exhibit reticence on this occasion--to beat the band! He
never contradicted this rumor--not once. _He_ just went about looking
kind o' down in the mouth for some reason or other, and when for the
sake o' Auld Lang Syne I offered him a job in my office--the cuss took
it! I won't call this deceitful, but it sure was reticent to a degree.

"Well, Ladies--and Gentlemen--the best of us are liable to mistakes,
and I have to admit--I am glad to humble myself and make this public
admission--I was entirely in error in this matter.

"It wasn't so. There was nothing in it. It was rumor, pure and simple.
Andy Dykeman never lost no mine, it appears; or else he had another up
his sleeve concealed from his best friends. Anyhow, the facts are
these; not only that A. Dykeman as he sits before you is a prosperous
and wealthy citizen, but that he has been, for these ten years back,
and we were all misled by a mixture of rumor and reticence. If he has
concealed these facts from the wife of his bosom I submit that that is
carrying reticence too far!" Again Mrs. St. Cloud sent a swift glance
at the reticent one, and again caught only his tender apologetic look
toward his wife, and her utter amazement.

Mr. Dykeman rose to his feet.

"I make no apologies for interrupting my friend," he said. "It is
necessary at times. He at least can never be accused of reticence.
Neither do I make apologies for letting rumor take its course--a
course often interesting to observe. But I do apologize--in this
heartfelt and public manner, to my wife, for marrying her under false
pretenses. But any of you gentlemen who have ever had any experience
in the attitude of," he hesitated mercifully, and said, "the World,
toward a man with money, may understand what it meant to me, after
many years of bachelorhood, to find a heart that not only loved me for
myself alone, but absolutely loved me better because I'd lost my
money--or she thought I had. I have hated to break the charm. But now
my unreticent friend here has stated the facts, and I make my
confession. Will you forgive me, Orella?"

"Speech! Speech!" cried Mr. Skee. But Mrs. Dykeman could not be
persuaded to do anything but blush and smile and squeeze her husband's
hand under the table, and Mr. Skee arose once more.

"This revelation being accomplished," he continued cheerfully; "and no
one any the worse for it, as I see," he was not looking in the
direction of Mrs. St. Cloud, whose slippered foot beat softly under
the table, though her face wore its usual sweet expression, possibly a
trifle strained; "I now proceed to a proclamation of that happy event
to celebrate which we are here gathered together. I allude to the
Betrothal of Our Esteemed Friend, Dr. Richard Hale, and the Fairest of
the Fair! Regarding the Fair, we think he has chosen well. But
regarding Dick Hale, his good fortune is so clear, so evidently
undeserved, and his pride and enjoyment thereof so ostentatious, as to
leave us some leeway to make remarks.

"Natural remarks, irresistible remarks, as you might say, and not
intended to be acrimonious. Namely, such as these: It's a long lane
that 