urs. The able-bodied and able-minded human being who does not work
is a contemptible object. To take from the labour of others so large a
share of human products as is necessary to our comfort to-day, and
contribute nothing in return, is the position of a devouring parasite.

Most women do work, hard and long, at house-service. The "natural"
mother is content to mingle her "sacred duties" of child-care with the
miscellaneous duties of a house-servant; but the "unnatural mother,"
for the sake of her children, refuses to be the kitchen-maid,
parlour-maid, and chamber-maid of the world any longer. She recognises
that her real duties are too important to be hindered in their
performance any longer by these primitive inconveniences; and, with
combined intelligence, she and the others arrange their households on
a basis of organised professional service, with skilled labour by the
hour, and so each has time to perform some professional service
herself, and pay well for the better performance of the "domestic"
tasks.

This subject is treated in a special volume on "Women and Economics,"
but here it is sufficient to present the position of the mother, the
"unnatural" mother, who would refuse to maintain any longer our
grossly defective system of household service (either by herself or by
a hired woman), on the ground that it was not conducive to the best
development of her children.

To those who for any reason prefer, or are compelled by circumstances,
to pursue the profession of private house-servant, it will, however,
be of inestimable advantage to have their children taken out of the
dirt and danger, and placed in proper conditions, while the mother
follows her profession at home. The natural mother cares only for her
own children. She loves and labours without knowledge, and what
experience she gains by practising on her own children is buried with
her. The unnatural mother cares for Children,--all of them,--and knows
that she can best serve her own by lifting the standard of
child-culture for all.

We have urgent need of the unnatural mother,--the mother who has added
a trained intellect to a warm heart; and, when we have enough of them,
the rarest sound on earth will be that now so pitifully common,--the
crying of a little child.




XV.

SOCIAL PARENTAGE.


The mother does her duty by her children as best she can. The father
does his duty by his children. But we do not do our duty by our
children. The relation of the State to the child is little thought of,
much less understood. We have discussed it only as an alternative to
the parental relation, involving the removal of the child from the
home and family, and the substitution of civic for domestic care. Such
a proposal naturally excites the hot opposition of parental love and
instinct, and cannot stand. It has been tried more or less thoroughly,
as in Sparta, but does not appeal to the human heart or head, and is
not in the least what is here under discussion. The true relation of
the State to the child includes the parental relation, and in no way
controverts the love and instinct of those invaluable public
functionaries.

It is not necessary, or in any way desirable, for the State to remove
the child from the parent. Parents are evolved for the purpose of
rearing children, and possess highly specialised and urgent impulses
in that direction,--far too useful forces to be ignored.

But the civilised human parent lives as part of an elaborate
society,--a State; and, as a member of the State, he holds a new
relation to his child--she holds a new relation to her child:
they--and they are the State--hold a new relation to their children.
This is what we so generally ignore.

The individual parents do their individual duty fairly well; but the
collective parents, who constitute society, fail shamefully in their
collective duties. What is a society? It is an organisation of human
beings, alive, complex, exquisitely developed in co-ordinate
inter-service. What is it for? It is for development, growth,
progress, like any other living thing. How does a society improve? By
combinations of individuals evolving social processes which react
favourably upon the individual constituents, and develope in them
better social faculties. For instance, early combinations of
individuals evolve low forms of legal protection for the citizens of
the early State. Under those protective enactments, citizens grow up
in comparative peace, and become capable of enacting further and
superior laws.

In recent and particular instance, our American forefathers
established a system of public education under which many citizens
were developed to a degree of intelligence sufficient to see the need
and the means of extending and improving that education. Education is
a social process, impossible--in any human degree--among detached
individuals.

The education of children is a distinctly social process. Much of it
may be carried on by the parents, but it is for social improvement and
as a member of society that they do this. Here is where our parents,
who constitute society, fail to see the nature and extent of 