arouse the kind of emotion commanded by the women of Herland.
These were women one had to love "up," very high up, instead of down.
They were not pets. They were not servants. They were not timid,
inexperienced, weak.

After I got over the jar to my pride (which Jeff, I truly think, never
felt--he was a born worshipper, and which Terry never got over--he
was quite clear in his ideas of "the position of women"), I found that
loving "up" was a very good sensation after all. It gave me a queer
feeling, way down deep, as of the stirring of some ancient dim
prehistoric consciousness, a feeling that they were right somehow--that
this was the way to feel. It was like--coming home to mother. I don't
mean the underflannels-and-doughnuts mother, the fussy person that waits
on you and spoils you and doesn't really know you. I mean the feeling
that a very little child would have, who had been lost--for ever so
long. It was a sense of getting home; of being clean and rested;
of safety and yet freedom; of love that was always there, warm like
sunshine in May, not hot like a stove or a featherbed--a love that
didn't irritate and didn't smother.

I looked at Ellador as if I hadn't seen her before. "If you won't go,"
I said, "I'll get Terry to the coast and come back alone. You can let me
down a rope. And if you will go--why you blessed wonder-woman--I would
rather live with you all my life--like this--than to have any other
woman I ever saw, or any number of them, to do as I like with. Will you
come?"

She was keen for coming. So the plans went on. She'd have liked to wait
for that Marvel of Celis's, but Terry had no such desire. He was crazy
to be out of it all. It made him sick, he said, SICK; this everlasting
mother-mother-mothering. I don't think Terry had what the phrenologists
call "the lump of philoprogenitiveness" at all well developed.

"Morbid one-sided cripples," he called them, even when from his window
he could see their splendid vigor and beauty; even while Moadine, as
patient and friendly as if she had never helped Alima to hold and bind
him, sat there in the room, the picture of wisdom and serene strength.
"Sexless, epicene, undeveloped neuters!" he went on bitterly. He sounded
like Sir Almwroth Wright.

Well--it was hard. He was madly in love with Alima, really; more so than
he had ever been before, and their tempestuous courtship, quarrels, and
reconciliations had fanned the flame. And then when he sought by that
supreme conquest which seems so natural a thing to that type of man, to
force her to love him as her master--to have the sturdy athletic furious
woman rise up and master him--she and her friends--it was no wonder he
raged.

Come to think of it, I do not recall a similar case in all history or
fiction. Women have killed themselves rather than submit to outrage;
they have killed the outrager; they have escaped; or they have
submitted--sometimes seeming to get on very well with the victor
afterward. There was that adventure of "false Sextus," for instance,
who "found Lucrese combing the fleece, under the midnight lamp." He
threatened, as I remember, that if she did not submit he would slay her,
slay a slave and place him beside her and say he found him there. A poor
device, it always seemed to me. If Mr. Lucretius had asked him how he
came to be in his wife's bedroom overlooking her morals, what could he
have said? But the point is Lucrese submitted, and Alima didn't.

"She kicked me," confided the embittered prisoner--he had to talk to
someone. "I was doubled up with the pain, of course, and she jumped on
me and yelled for this old harpy [Moadine couldn't hear him] and they
had me trussed up in no time. I believe Alima could have done it alone,"
he added with reluctant admiration. "She's as strong as a horse. And
of course a man's helpless when you hit him like that. No woman with a
shade of decency--"

I had to grin at that, and even Terry did, sourly. He wasn't given to
reasoning, but it did strike him that an assault like his rather waived
considerations of decency.

"I'd give a year of my life to have her alone again," he said slowly,
his hands clenched till the knuckles were white.

But he never did. She left our end of the country entirely, went up into
the fir-forest on the highest slopes, and stayed there. Before we left
he quite desperately longed to see her, but she would not come and he
could not go. They watched him like lynxes. (Do lynxes watch any better
than mousing cats, I wonder!)

Well--we had to get the flyer in order, and be sure there was enough
fuel left, though Terry said we could glide all right, down to that
lake, once we got started. We'd have gone gladly in a week's time, of
course, but there was a great to-do all over the country about
Ellador's leaving them. She had interviews with some of the leading
ethicists--wise women with still eyes, and with the best of the
teachers. There was a stir, a thrill, a deep excitement everywhere.

Our teaching about the rest of the world has given them all a sense
of isolation, of remoteness, of being a little outlying sample of a
country, overlooked an