th should ever separate
her from her child. And, dear me, Cassie looked so white that it
really seemed as if it would. She made me feel guilty again; but John
can't come to any harm with my mother's experience and Jessie's
knowledge and natural talent. That's the main thing. Jessie always
cared more for children than I did,--except little John, of course.
They've fixed the place up on purpose for children. Such arrangements
for bathing and digging and mud-pieing and gardening and so on you
never saw. There is something for those chicks to do all the blessed
time, and these nice girls--my own friends--to be with them every
minute. You see they take turns and relieve each other, so they are
always fresh for the children. And, then being so enthusiastic and
scientific, it isn't drudgery to them. They are studying all the time.
And how glad I shall be to get back in the fall! Then I can work up
that training school for nurse-maids.




XIII.

CHILDREN AND SERVANTS.


In the growing discontent with our present methods of household
service, while we waver between long-held prejudice, old and dear, and
the irresistible pressure of new conditions, it is worth while to
weigh well the relation between this present method of house-service
and our present method of child-culture.

The home is the place in which we rear young children. It is also the
place in which we perform certain kinds of labour, mainly cooking,
cleaning, and sewing. In the vast majority of our homes, fully
nine-tenths of them, as shown by the United States Census Report,
giving the number of domestic servants in proportion to the number of
families, these industries are carried on by the mother. She is the
domestic servant. In the remaining one-tenth of our homes the labour
is performed by hired servants, the maid-of-all-work still greatly
predominating. The questions here suggested for consideration are:
first, is a mother, who is also a house-servant, able to supply
proper conditions and care to young children? And, second, is the
company of domestic servants, other than their mothers, and constant
association with their industries, a desirable condition for the
education of young children?

It is, of course, difficult to consider with any clearness of
perception facts which have been always familiar. The association of
child and servant is so old that it makes no impression on our
consciousness. It will, perhaps, bring out the relation more vividly
to change the sex of the servant. Suppose a man is left with boys to
educate. Suppose he engages a tutor for his boys. He is willing to pay
well for a man with the proper ability, character, and training to
come and benefit his children by instruction and association. Would
such a man be willing to engage a tutor who was also a janitor? Would
he be willing to spare the time required to fill the janitor's
position from the time required to fill the tutor's position? Or would
he be willing to engage a man who had so little fitness for the
profession of tutor as to be content to act as janitor also?

Again, in sending his boys to school to be educated, would a man be
willing to have that school also run as a restaurant, a laundry, and a
tailor shop? Would he think these industries and the society of the
persons engaged in them good educational influences? It is clear that
a man would not be willing to do these things. Yet all men cheerfully
intrust their children, during their most impressionable years, to the
society and care of domestic servants and the constant association
with domestic industries. In most cases the servant is also the
mother. In other cases the servant is not the mother. In either case
the child grows up in association with domestic servants and service.

Let us not too readily conclude that this is an evil, but examine it
carefully, in its physical and psychical effects. Physically, the
child is born into a certain kind of shop or factory. The conditions
of any labour in the home are particularly open to criticism; our
sweat-shop investigations show that in glaring instance. Intimate
associations with a trade, and especially a dirty or dangerous one,
does not seem advantageous to a child's health and progress. In nine
homes out of ten the child is directly associated with the trades of
his mother, who is a cook, a laundress, a cleaner in general; and the
baby is early accustomed to the fumes and heat of the kitchen, to
grease and ashes and dust, to all the kitchen-work, laundry-work,
chamber-work, and endless miscellaneous industries of his mother. In
the other tenth of our homes the child grows up a little removed, but
not far, from these same industries. They go on under his eyes none
the less, but with a certain ban upon them, as servant's work.

Any mother and housewife knows the complications continually arising
between children and servants. Early associations are deep and
lasting. Domestic servants are not, as a rule, either at all trained
in the right treatment of children or in such personal development of
character and manners as would make them desirable companions for the
young. Yet compa