red Dr. Bellair
meaningly.

"She can cook," he replied. "She's French, or of French parentage. She
used to keep a little--place of entertainment. The food was excellent.
She's been a patient of mine--off and on--for five years--and I should
call her perfectly safe."

Miss Orella still looked worried. "I'd like to help her and the boy, but
would it--look well? I don't want to be mean about it, but this is a
very serious venture with us, Dr. Hale, and I have these girls with me."

"With you and Dr. Bellair and Mrs. Pettigrew the young ladies will be
quite safe, Miss Elder. As to the woman's present character, she has
suffered two changes of heart, she's become a religious devotee--and a
man-hater! And from a business point of view, I assure you that if
Jeanne Jeaune is in your kitchen you'll never have a room empty."

"Johnny Jones! queer name for a woman!" said Grandma. They repeated it
to her carefully, but she only changed to "Jennie June," and adhered
to one or the other, thereafter. "What's the boy's name?" she asked
further.

"Theophile," Dr. Hale replied.

"Huh!" said she.

"Why don't she keep an eating-house still?" asked Dr. Bellair rather
suspiciously.

"That's what I like best about her," he answered. "She is trying to
break altogether with her past. She wants to give up 'public
life'--and private life won't have her."

They decided to try the experiment, and found it worked well.

There were two bedrooms over the kitchen where "Mrs. Jones" as Grandma
generally called her, and her boy, could be quite comfortable and by
themselves; and although of a somewhat sour and unsociable aspect, and
fiercely watchful lest anyone offend her son, this questionable
character proved an unquestionable advantage. With the boy's help, she
cooked for the houseful, which grew to be a family of twenty-five. He
also wiped dishes, helped in the laundry work, cleaned and scrubbed
and carried coal; and Miss Elder, seeing his steady usefulness,
insisted on paying wages for him too. This unlooked for praise and
gain won the mother's heart, and as she grew more at home with them,
and he less timid, she encouraged him to do the heavier cleaning in
the rest of the house.

"Huh!" said Grandma. "I wish more sane and moral persons would work
like that!"

Vivian watched with amazement the swift filling of the house.

There was no trouble at all about boarders, except in discriminating
among them. "Make them pay in advance, Rella," Dr. Bellair advised, "it
doesn't cost them any more, and it is a great convenience. 'References
exchanged,' of course. There are a good many here that I know--you can
always count on Mr. Dykeman and Fordham Grier, and John Unwin."

Before a month was over the place was full to its limits with what Sue
called "assorted boarders," the work ran smoothly and the business end
of Miss Elder's venture seemed quite safe. They had the twenty Dr.
Bellair prophesied, and except for her, Mrs. Pettigrew, Miss Peeder, a
teacher of dancing and music; Mrs. Jocelyn, who was interested in
mining, and Sarah Hart, who described herself as a "journalist," all
were men.

Fifteen men to eight women. Miss Elder sat at the head of her table,
looked down it and across the other one, and marvelled continuously.
Never in her New England life had she been with so many men--except in
church--and they were more scattered. This houseful of heavy feet and
broad shoulders, these deep voices and loud laughs, the atmosphere of
interchanging jests and tobacco smoke, was new to her. She hated the
tobacco smoke, but that could not be helped. They did not smoke in her
parlor, but the house was full of it none the less, in which constant
presence she began to reverse the Irishman's well known judgment of
whiskey, allowing that while all tobacco was bad, some tobacco was
much worse than others.




CHAPTER V

CONTRASTS

      Old England thinks our country
        Is a wilderness at best--
      And small New England thinks the same
        Of the large free-minded West.

      Some people know the good old way
        Is the only way to do,
      And find there must be something wrong
        In anything that's new.


To Vivian the new life offered a stimulus, a sense of stir and promise
even beyond her expectations. She wrote dutiful letters to her mother,
trying to describe the difference between this mountain town and
Bainville, but found the New England viewpoint an insurmountable
obstacle.

To Bainville "Out West" was a large blank space on the map, and the
blank space in the mind which matched it was but sparsely dotted with
a few disconnected ideas such as "cowboy," "blizzard," "prairie
fire," "tornado," "border ruffian," and the like.

The girl's painstaking description of the spreading, vigorous young
town, with its fine, modern buildings, its banks and stores and
theatres, its country club and parks, its pleasant social life, made
small impression on the Bainville mind. But the fact that Miss Elder's
venture was successful from the first did impress old acquaintances,
and Mrs. Lane read aloud to selected visitors her daughter's accounts
of their new and