ake care of an older white one: the pickaninny matures much more
rapidly. So, again, in our own lower social grades the little children
of the poor are sharper, better able to care for themselves, than
children of the same age in more developed classes. It is no proof of
greater intelligence in the adult. It is retrogression,--a mark of bad
social conditions.

Civilised society is responsible for civilised childhood, and should
meet its responsibilities. The sweet confidence of a modern child, as
compared to the alert suspicion of a baby savage, shows what ages of
social safe-guarding have done. In the beautiful union of our
civilised growth, even so far, we have made possible the Child; and it
is for us still further to protect and develope this most exquisite
social product,--this greatest social hope and power. Society's
relation to the child is impersonal. It is not limited by parenthood.
The parental relation is lower, more limited. Parentally, we care only
for our own: socially, we care for all. Parentally, we are animals:
socially, we learn to love one another. We become, approximately,
Christians.

Christianity is a social condition. In our present degree of social
progress, we produce by our specialised co-ordinate activities that
safe and comfortable material environment, those comparatively
developed virtues which we call "civilisation." But, in applying this
common product to the advancement of the child,--which is our best and
quickest way to incorporate progress in the race itself,--we allow
the incapacity of the individual parent to limit the child's
advantages. We deny to the child the conditions necessary to his best
development, unless his particular father is able to provide them. Our
theory here is that the father would not work so hard if the State
provided for his child; some thinkers combating even the public school
and public library on this ground. This is an outworn economic
fallacy. The inferior father cannot work beyond a certain grade
because he has not the capacity; and, if the child has only the
advantages the inferior father can provide for him, he grows up to be
another inferior father and low-grade worker. The most deadly result
of this foolish neglect of the young citizen is seen in the ensuing
action of the biological law, "Reproduction is in inverse proportion
to specialisation." Because we leave the child to grow up
unspecialised, untrained, save for the puny efforts of his single
low-grade parent, therefore he, in turn, helps fill the world with
very numerous and very inferior progeny.

We are hampered by the rapid reproduction of the very lowest classes
of society, weighted down by their defects and limitations, forced to
wait--the most advanced of us--for the great rear-guard of the
population. We must wait because a society is alive, and includes all
its members. It cannot outstrip its own inferior parts, however
neglected and behindhand they may be. And their numbers--_numbers
resultant from their low condition_--complicate the problem
hopelessly. That is, hopelessly on this old fallacious notion that the
child can have no help from all the strong, rich world, save what his
father and mother can filter through their personal limitations. We
are beginning to change this by our efforts at free public education.
We shall change it more and more as we grow consciously awake to our
true social responsibility to the child.

We cannot afford to have one citizen grow up below the standards of
common comfort, health, and general education. To the scared cry,
"But, if you take the responsibility off these people, they will
simply flood the world with wretched babies!" comes the answer of
natural law, "Improve the individual, and you check this crude
fecundity." It is because they are neglected and inferior that they
have so many children. Make higher-class people of the children, and
you check this constant influx of low-grade life, and gradually
introduce a better-born population.

When the wise, beneficent parental love of Human Society for its young
really does its duty, tenderly removing obstructions from the path of
all our little ones, we shall give to them those common human
advantages without which they cannot grow to the happiness which is
their right, the usefulness which is their duty. All parents who are
able to do more for their children would be free to do so, as those
who can afford private schools, or educate their little ones at home,
are not compelled to send them to the public schools.

As now society provides the school for the young citizen, on the
ground of public advantage, without regard to the inability of the
parent, so we must learn to provide a far richer and more complete
education, and all else that the parent falls short in, because it is
necessary for the good of society, and because we love our children.




Index.


  Absence of mind, 54.

  "Acquired traits not transmissible," 9.
      experiments with guinea-pigs, 11.

  Action, bodily, directed by mental processes, 57.

  Adult, our houses built only for the, 121.

  Age, the presumption of, 156.
      not