nd friends enough to give them to?" they asked her, and she
would smile enigmatically and reply, "Good presents make good friends."

"If a woman minds her P's and Q's she can get a husband easy enough,"
insisted the invalid. "Just shove that lamp nearer, Vivian, will you."

Vivian moved the lamp. Her mother moved her chair to follow it and
dropped her darning egg, which the girl handed to her.

"Supper's ready," announced a hard-featured middle-aged woman, opening
the dining-room door.

At this moment the gate clicked, and a firm step was heard coming up
the path.

"Gracious, that's the minister!" cried Mrs. Lane. "He said he'd be in
this afternoon if he got time. I thought likely 'twould be to supper."

She received him cordially, and insisted on his staying, slipping out
presently to open a jar of quinces.

The Reverend Otis Williams was by no means loathe to take occasional
meals with his parishioners. It was noted that, in making pastoral
calls, he began with the poorer members of his flock, and frequently
arrived about meal-time at the houses of those whose cooking he
approved.

"It is always a treat to take supper here," he said. "Not feeling
well, Mr. Lane? I'm sorry to hear it. Ah! Mrs. Pettigrew! Is that
jacket for me, by any chance? A little sombre, isn't it? Good evening,
Vivian. You are looking well--as you always do."

Vivian did not like him. He had married her mother, he had christened
her, she had "sat under" him for long, dull, uninterrupted years; yet
still she didn't like him.

"A chilly evening, Mr. Lane," he pursued.

"That's what I say," his host agreed. "Vivian says it isn't; I say it
is."

"Disagreement in the family! This won't do, Vivian," said the minister
jocosely. "Duty to parents, you know! Duty to parents!"

"Does duty to parents alter the temperature?" the girl asked, in a voice
of quiet sweetness, yet with a rebellious spark in her soft eyes.

"Huh!" said her grandmother--and dropped her gray ball. Vivian picked
it up and the old lady surreptitiously patted her.

"Pardon me," said the reverend gentleman to Mrs. Pettigrew, "did you
speak?"

"No," said the old lady, "Seldom do."

"Silence is golden, Mrs. Pettigrew. Silence is golden. Speech is
silver, but silence is golden. It is a rare gift."

Mrs. Pettigrew set her lips so tightly that they quite disappeared,
leaving only a thin dented line in her smoothly pale face. She was
called by the neighbors "wonderfully well preserved," a phrase she
herself despised. Some visitor, new to the town, had the hardihood to
use it to her face once. "Huh!" was the response. "I'm just sixty. Henry
Haskins and George Baker and Stephen Doolittle are all older'n I
am--and still doing business, doing it better'n any of the young folks
as far as I can see. You don't compare them to canned pears, do you?"

Mr. Williams knew her value in church work, and took no umbrage at her
somewhat inimical expression; particularly as just then Mrs. Lane
appeared and asked them to walk out to supper.

Vivian sat among them, restrained and courteous, but inwardly at war
with her surroundings. Here was her mother, busy, responsible, serving
creamed codfish and hot biscuit; her father, eating wheezily, and
finding fault with the biscuit, also with the codfish; her
grandmother, bright-eyed, thin-lipped and silent. Vivian got on well
with her grandmother, though neither of them talked much.

"My mother used to say that the perfect supper was cake, preserves,
hot bread, and a 'relish,'" said Mr. Williams genially. "You have the
perfect supper, Mrs. Lane."

"I'm glad if you enjoy it, I'm sure," said that lady. "I'm fond of a
bit of salt myself."

"And what are you reading now, Vivian," he asked paternally.

"Ward," she answered, modestly and briefly.

"Ward? Dr. Ward of the _Centurion_?"

Vivian smiled her gentlest.

"Oh, no," she replied; "Lester F. Ward, the Sociologist."

"Poor stuff, I think!" said her father. "Girls have no business to
read such things."

"I wish you'd speak to Vivian about it, Mr. Williams. She's got beyond
me," protested her mother.

"Huh!" said Mrs. Pettigrew. "I'd like some more of that quince, Laura."

"My dear young lady, you are not reading books of which your parents
disapprove, I hope?" urged the minister.

"Shouldn't I--ever?" asked the girl, in her soft, disarming manner.
"I'm surely old enough!"

"The duty of a daughter is not measured by years," he replied
sonorously. "Does parental duty cease? Are you not yet a child in your
father's house?"

"Is a daughter always a child if she lives at home?" inquired the
girl, as one seeking instruction.

He set down his cup and wiped his lips, flushing somewhat.

"The duty of a daughter begins at the age when she can understand the
distinction between right and wrong," he said, "and continues as long
as she is blessed with parents."

"And what is it?" she asked, large-eyed, attentive.

"What is it?" he repeated, looking at her in some surprise. "It is
submission, obedience--obedience."

"I see. So Mother ought to obey Grandmother," she pursued
meditatively, and Mrs. Pettigrew nearly choked in her tea.

Vivian was