he whole breathless hope of us was for
THEIR children--if they should have them. And they did! Then there was
the period of pride and triumph till we grew too numerous; and after
that, when it all came down to one child apiece, we began to really
work--to make better ones."

"But how does this account for such a radical difference in your
religion?" I persisted.

She said she couldn't talk about the difference very intelligently,
not being familiar with other religions, but that theirs seemed simple
enough. Their great Mother Spirit was to them what their own motherhood
was--only magnified beyond human limits. That meant that they
felt beneath and behind them an upholding, unfailing, serviceable
love--perhaps it was really the accumulated mother-love of the race they
felt--but it was a Power.

"Just what is your theory of worship?" I asked her.

"Worship? What is that?"

I found it singularly difficult to explain. This Divine Love which they
felt so strongly did not seem to ask anything of them--"any more than
our mothers do," she said.

"But surely your mothers expect honor, reverence, obedience, from you.
You have to do things for your mothers, surely?"

"Oh, no," she insisted, smiling, shaking her soft brown hair. "We do
things FROM our mothers--not FOR them. We don't have to do things
FOR them--they don't need it, you know. But we have to live
on--splendidly--because of them; and that's the way we feel about God."

I meditated again. I thought of that God of Battles of ours,
that Jealous God, that Vengeance-is-mine God. I thought of our
world-nightmare--Hell.

"You have no theory of eternal punishment then, I take it?"

Ellador laughed. Her eyes were as bright as stars, and there were tears
in them, too. She was so sorry for me.

"How could we?" she asked, fairly enough. "We have no punishments in
life, you see, so we don't imagine them after death."

"Have you NO punishments? Neither for children nor criminals--such mild
criminals as you have?" I urged.

"Do you punish a person for a broken leg or a fever? We have preventive
measures, and cures; sometimes we have to 'send the patient to bed,' as
it were; but that's not a punishment--it's only part of the treatment,"
she explained.

Then studying my point of view more closely, she added: "You see, we
recognize, in our human motherhood, a great tender limitless uplifting
force--patience and wisdom and all subtlety of delicate method. We
credit God--our idea of God--with all that and more. Our mothers are not
angry with us--why should God be?"

"Does God mean a person to you?"

This she thought over a little. "Why--in trying to get close to it in
our minds we personify the idea, naturally; but we certainly do
not assume a Big Woman somewhere, who is God. What we call God is a
Pervading Power, you know, an Indwelling Spirit, something inside of us
that we want more of. Is your God a Big Man?" she asked innocently.

"Why--yes, to most of us, I think. Of course we call it an Indwelling
Spirit just as you do, but we insist that it is Him, a Person, and a
Man--with whiskers."

"Whiskers? Oh yes--because you have them! Or do you wear them because He
does?"

"On the contrary, we shave them off--because it seems cleaner and more
comfortable."

"Does He wear clothes--in your idea, I mean?"

I was thinking over the pictures of God I had seen--rash advances of the
devout mind of man, representing his Omnipotent Deity as an old man in
a flowing robe, flowing hair, flowing beard, and in the light of her
perfectly frank and innocent questions this concept seemed rather
unsatisfying.

I explained that the God of the Christian world was really the ancient
Hebrew God, and that we had simply taken over the patriarchal idea--that
ancient one which quite inevitably clothed its thought of God with the
attributes of the patriarchal ruler, the grandfather.

"I see," she said eagerly, after I had explained the genesis and
development of our religious ideals. "They lived in separate groups,
with a male head, and he was probably a little--domineering?"

"No doubt of that," I agreed.

"And we live together without any 'head,' in that sense--just our chosen
leaders--that DOES make a difference."

"Your difference is deeper than that," I assured her. "It is in your
common motherhood. Your children grow up in a world where everybody
loves them. They find life made rich and happy for them by the diffused
love and wisdom of all mothers. So it is easy for you to think of God in
the terms of a similar diffused and competent love. I think you are far
nearer right than we are."

"What I cannot understand," she pursued carefully, "is your preservation
of such a very ancient state of mind. This patriarchal idea you tell me
is thousands of years old?"

"Oh yes--four, five, six thousand--every so many."

"And you have made wonderful progress in those years--in other things?"

"We certainly have. But religion is different. You see, our religions
come from behind us, and are initiated by some great teacher who is
dead. He is supposed to have known the whole thing and taught it,
finally. All we have to do is believ