their
work. They have an exaggerated idea of "parental responsibility" to
the child, and no idea at all of social responsibility to the child.
That social development which has enlarged the mind and soul of the
beast-savage to our present capacity for love and service we still
imagine to be purely parental, and endeavour to concentrate it all on
our own children, failing utterly in our duty to each other's
children.

No such gross error can work good results. This disproportionate
concentration of feeling on the individual child, and neglect of the
child in general, produces a world full of people with a congested
family life, full of morbid sensitiveness and potential difficulty and
suffering, and a weak, anæmic social life, full of mutual neglect and
dereliction of duty.

The well-known illustration of education can be used again still
farther to show this. Suppose a small community, wherein the parents
are all very anxious for the education of their own children and
profoundly indifferent to the education of anybody's else children.
Suppose these parents all labour religiously to buy books, pictures,
statues, music, and to have the best of tutors for their own children.

It can be seen without much mathematical effort how inferior would be
the supplies purchasable by the individual parent's funds compared to
those purchasable by their collective funds. Separately, they could
not compass a good teacher to each family, nor good pictures, nor
many books and instruments, nor any statuary and music to speak of.
Collectively and for less money, they could have all these things in
far higher degree of excellence.

It is social parentage, such as we have, which gives us the school as
we have it. It is the weakness and irresponsibility of our social
parentage which leaves the school as it is, and fails to push on to
something far fuller and better. What thought, what care, what
service, does the average mother give to other people's children?
None. She does not imagine it to be her duty. She imagines that her
duty lies only toward her own children, and that it is no faintest
fault of hers if other children suffer. If she sees little ones
visibly neglected and injured, she merely blames their individual
parents, and gives no further thought to the matter.

Now, once for all, what is the advantage of living in a society
instead of living alone? It is that we do not have to spend all our
time and strength in very imperfectly taking care of ourselves, as the
separate individual would be obliged to do, but are more and more
perfectly taken care of by one another. We all share in the advantages
of living together,--the protection not only of numbers, but of our
specialised defenders, civil and military; the vast accumulations of
knowledge and skill acquired by many and transmitted to all; the
increasing measure of mutual love, in which we thrive and grow. The
more perfectly a society can distribute these advantages to all its
citizens, the more swiftly and healthfully does it advance and
improve.

Public peace and safety, public justice, public education, the public
hall, the public road, the public library and gallery and museum and
bath,--these are what react so favourably upon the individual, and
make better homes and citizens. The father is, to some extent, awake
to the duties of social parentage; the mother, hardly at all. The
difference is this: the father serves his children by means of serving
other people; the mother serves her children personally, with her own
hands. Suppose a number of families (we cannot call it a community,
because it would not be one), wherein the fathers endeavoured to
serve their children personally with their own hands only, each man
building, weaving, farming, fishing, blacksmithing, making dishes and
tools and instruments, and trying in all ways to meet the family needs
_himself_ personally.

It will readily be seen how little the families of these men would
have. The time, strength, and skill of one man do not go far, if he
tries to do all things himself. Why do women imagine that their time,
strength, and skill severally will serve better than in combination?
Why are they content to give their children only what they can do
themselves alone, thus depriving them of the rich possibilities of
civilised motherhood, combined, collective, mutually helpful?

The term "city fathers," and its painful lack of companionship in city
mothers, shows the wide gulf between the development of social
parentage in men and women. The accidents to little children from
electric and cable cars are pitifully numerous. What mother has taken
any steps to prevent these accidents? Individually, each tries to
protect her own, as does the animal or savage. Collectively, they do
nothing; yet it is the lack of this collective motherhood which makes
our cities so unsafe for children. The idea that, if each takes care
of her own, all will be cared for, is as false for women as it is for
men. If each man took care of his own, and not of the others, we
should have no soldiers, no policemen, no government, no society, only
that social 