mes bringing her fingers to his
lips for a strong slow kiss which she could not forget for hours.

She raised her head. A new wave of feeling swept over her. She saw a
vista of self-sacrificing devotion, foregoing much, forgiving much,
but rejoicing in the companionship of a noble life, a soul rebuilt, a
love that was passionately grateful. Her eyes met those of her friend
fairly. "And I love him!" she said.

"Will you tell that to your crippled children?" asked Dr. Bellair.
"Will they understand it if they are idiots? Will they see it if they
are blind? Will it satisfy you when they are dead?"

The girl shrank before her.

"You _shall_ understand," said the doctor. "This is no case for
idealism and exalted emotion. Do you want a son like Theophile?"

"I thought you said--they didn't have any."

"Some don't--that is one result. Another result--of gonorrhea--is to
have children born blind. Their eyes may be saved, with care. But it
is not a motherly gift for one's babies--blindness. You may have years
and years of suffering yourself--any or all of those diseases
'peculiar to women' as we used to call them! And we pitied the men who
'were so good to their invalid wives'! You may have any number of
still-born children, year after year. And every little marred dead
face would remind you that you allowed it! And they may be deformed
and twisted, have all manner of terrible and loathsome afflictions,
they and their children after them, if they have any. And many do!
dear girl, don't you see that's wicked?"

Vivian was silent, her two hands wrung together; her whole form
shivering with emotion.

"Don't think that you are 'ruining his life,'" said the doctor kindly.
"He ruined it long ago--poor boy!"

The girl turned quickly at the note of sympathy.

"They don't know either," her friend went on. "What could Miss Orella
do, poor little saint, to protect a lively young fellow like that! All
they have in their scatter-brained heads is 'it's naughty but it's
nice!' And so they rush off and ruin their whole lives--and their
wives'--and their children's. A man don't have to be so very wicked,
either, understand. Just one mis-step may be enough for infection."

"Even if it did break his heart, and yours--even if you both lived
single, he because it is the only decent thing he can do now, you
because of a misguided sense of devotion; that would be better than to
commit this plain sin. Beware of a biological sin, my dear; for it
there is no forgiveness."

She waited a moment and went on, as firmly and steadily as she would
have held the walls of a wound while she placed the stitches.

"If you two love each other so nobly and devotedly that it is higher
and truer and more lasting than the ordinary love of men and women,
you might be 'true' to one another for a lifetime, you see. And all
that friendship can do, exalted influence, noble inspiration--that is
open to you."

Vivian's eyes were wide and shining. She saw a possible future, not
wholly unbearable.

"Has he kissed you yet?" asked the doctor suddenly.

"No," she said. "That is--except----"

"Don't let him. You might catch it. Your friendship must be distant.
Well, shall we be going back? I'm sorry, my dear. I did hate awfully
to do it. But I hated worse to see you go down those awful steps from
which there is no returning."

"Yes," said Vivian. "Thank you. Won't you go on, please? I'll come
later."

An hour the girl sat there, with the clear blue sky above her, the
soft steady wind rustling the leaves, the little birds that hopped and
pecked and flirted their tails so near her motionless figure.

She thought and thought, and through all the tumult of ideas it grew
clearer to her that the doctor was right. She might sacrifice herself.
She had no right to sacrifice her children.

A feeling of unreasoning horror at this sudden outlook into a field of
unknown evil was met by her clear perception that if she was old
enough to marry, to be a mother, she was surely old enough to know
these things; and not only so, but ought to know them.

Shy, sensitive, delicate in feeling as the girl was, she had a fair
and reasoning mind.




CHAPTER X.

DETERMINATION.

      You may shut your eyes with a bandage,
        The while world vanishes soon;
      You may open your eyes at a knothole
        And see the sun and moon.


It must have grieved anyone who cared for Andrew Dykeman, to see Mrs.
St. Cloud's manner toward him change with his changed circumstances--she
had been so much with him, had been so kind to him; kinder than Carston
comment "knew for a fact," but not kinder than it surmised.

Then, though his dress remained as quietly correct, his face assumed a
worn and anxious look, and he no longer offered her long auto rides or
other expensive entertainment. She saw men on the piazza stop talking
as he came by, and shake their heads as they looked after him; but no
one would tell her anything definite till she questioned Mr. Skee.

"I am worried about Mr. Dykeman," she said to this ever-willing
confidant, beckoning him to a chair beside her.

A chair, to the mind of Mr. Skee, seemed to be for pi