ould _prove_?--if it
were necessary to save her?" She leaned forward, elbows on knees.

Jeanne sat in the flickering shadows, considering her words. "He has
had the sickness," she said at last.

"Can you prove that?"

"I can prove to you, a doctor, that Coralie and Anastasia and
Estelle--they have had it. They are still alive; but not so beautiful."

"Yes; but how can you prove it on him?"

"I know he was with them. Well, it was no secret. I myself have
seen--he was there often."

"How on earth have you managed not to be recognized?" Dr. Bellair
inquired after a few moments.

Jeanne laughed bitterly. "That was eight years ago; he was but a
boy--gay and foolish, with the others. What does a boy know?... Also,
at that time I was blonde, and--of a difference."

"I see," said the doctor, "I see! That's pretty straight. You know
personally of that time, and you know the record of those others. But
that was a long time ago."

"I have heard of him since, many times, in such company," said Jeanne.
They sat in silence for some time. A distant church clock struck a
single deep low note. The woman rose, stood for a hushed moment,
suddenly burst forth with hushed intensity: "You must save her,
doctor--you will! I was young once," she went on. "I did not know--as
she does not. I married, and--_that_ came to me! It made me a devil--for
awhile. Tell her, doctor--if you must; tell her about my boy!"

She went away, weeping silently, and Dr. Bellair sat sternly thinking
in her chair, and fell asleep in it from utter weariness.




CHAPTER VIII.

A MIXTURE.

      In poetry and painting and fiction we see
        Such praise for the Dawn of the Day,
      We've long since been convinced that a sunrise must be
        All Glorious and Golden and Gay.

      But we find there are mornings quite foggy and drear,
        With the clouds in a low-hanging pall;
      Till the grey light of daylight can hardly make clear
        That the sun has arisen at all.


Dr. Richard Hale left his brood of temporary orphans without really
expecting for them any particular oversight from Andrew Dykeman; but
the two were sufficiently close friends to well warrant the latter in
moving over to The Monastery--as Jimmie Saunders called it.

Mr. Dykeman was sufficiently popular with the young men to be welcome,
even if he had not had a good excuse, and when they found how
super-excellent his excuse was they wholly approved.

To accommodate Miss Orella was something--all the boys liked Miss
Orella. They speculated among themselves on her increasing youth and
good looks, and even exchanged sagacious theories as to the particular
acting cause. But when they found that Mr. Dykeman's visit was to make
room for the installation of Mrs. St. Cloud, they were more than
pleased.

All the unexpressed ideals of masculine youth seemed centered in this
palely graceful lady; the low, sweet voice, the delicate hands, the
subtle sympathy of manner, the nameless, quiet charm of dress.

Young Burns became her slave on sight, Lawson and Peters fell on the
second day; not one held out beyond the third. Even Susie's
attractions paled, her very youth became a disadvantage; she lacked
that large considering tenderness.

"Fact is," Mr. Peters informed his friends rather suddenly, "young
women are selfish. Naturally, of course. It takes some experience
to--well, to understand a fellow." They all agreed with him.

Mr. Dykeman, quiet and reserved as always, was gravely polite to the
newcomer, and Mr. Skee revolved at a distance, making observations.
Occasionally he paid some court to her, at which times she was cold to
him; and again he devoted himself to the other ladies with his
impressive air, as of one bowing low and sweeping the floor with a
plumed hat.

Mr. Skee's Stetson had, as a matter of fact, no sign of plumage, and
his bows were of a somewhat jerky order; but his gallantry was
sweeping and impressive, none the less. If he remained too far away
Mrs. St. Cloud would draw him to her circle, which consisted of all
the other gentlemen.

There were two exceptions. Mr. James Saunders had reached the stage
where any woman besides Susie was but a skirted ghost, and Morton was by
this time so deeply devoted to Vivian that he probably would not have
wavered even if left alone. He was not wholly a free agent, however.

Adela St. Cloud had reached an age when something must be done. Her
mysterious absent husband had mysteriously and absently died, and
still she never breathed a word against him. But the Bible Class in
Bainville furnished no satisfactory material for further hopes, the
place of her earlier dwelling seemed not wholly desirable now, and the
West had called her.

Finding herself comfortably placed in Mr. Dykeman's room, and judging
from the number of his shoe-trees and the quality of his remaining
toilet articles that he might be considered "suitable," she decided to
remain in the half-way house for a season. So settled, why, for a
thousand reasons one must keep one's hand in.

There were men in plenty, from twenty year old Archie to the uncertain
decades of Mr. Skee. Idly amusing 