 beautiful children, and nourishes them at her proud and
loving breast. She has provided beforehand for their care and
training, knowing from the study and experience she has given the
subject, and the reading she has kept up, what are now the best
obtainable conditions. Her home has been chosen with a view to its
proximity to the best baby-garden and child-home she knew, where some
of the teachers were old friends of hers, and all were known by
reputation.

Having chosen a profession with a view to the physical limitations of
motherhood, and prepared during her plentiful time of waiting such
arrangement of hours and substitutes as shall enable her to meet the
mother's duties properly, she takes a complete vacation for the months
that need it; and then gradually resumes her work for part of the day,
as her hours between nursing the child lengthen. She goes gladly to
her work because she loves it, is well trained for it, and by doing it
she serves her child. She comes more gladly to the child, the deep
primal instinct coming out strongly; and at night the healthy little
one sleeps near her in the quiet home.

Between the hours of nursing, the baby sleeps peacefully or wakes
happily, in the beautiful home that his mother--working with the other
mothers--have made for their children; and is watched and cared for by
the wise and tender women who have proved their fitness for this
precious work.

His mother is not worried about him. She knows that in that home there
is no possible danger, in that trained care no least neglect; and
that, if any sudden illness smote him, the visiting physician is there
daily, and others in instant call. This place was made for babies, and
is not in charge of servants. She is at ease about the child. Eagerly
she goes to him when work is done. No weariness, no anxious
uncertainty, only the glad triumphant mother-love which is content in
knowing that the best possible conditions are secured to the child,
and a constantly renewed delight in its health and beauty and good
progress. Owing to her previous study, she knows enough not to undo
the good effects by foolishness at home. She is in daily communication
with the teachers,--and nurses and doctors, if necessary. She does not
lose touch with the little life. Her untired affection surrounds him
always, and to the child she is probably the most agreeable of the
several agreeable persons in whose society he finds himself. Unless
she falls terribly below the common standard, he will love her the
best; for the beautiful background of nursing won and held his dawning
affection, and the sweet home-coming every night is a constantly
strengthening tie. Any clean, comfortable, human home should be
suitable for a healthy child to sleep in; but it is in his
impressionable day-time hours that he needs more appropriate
surroundings.

It will be seen that this unnatural mother has her child in her own
care for sixteen hours out of the twenty-four, and during the eight
hours of a working day she herself places him in what she knows to be
better conditions than her own home could offer. If she does chance to
possess that degree of educational genius essential to the best care
of young children, her eight hours of work will be spent in taking
care of them, and the remaining sixteen in still taking care of her
own. Thus the exceptional mother, who is also an educator, will have
her own all the time; and her unusual ability will benefit many other
little ones for part of the time.

The "natural" mother, of course, believes that her own care of her own
child is better than any one's else. She can give no proof of this,
and would be very unwilling to submit to any examination or
competition. She simply thinks she is the best educator because she
is a "mother." The sickness and death of her children, or the
accidents which happen to them, or their inferior development and
disagreeable behaviour, she never takes as proof of her incompetence.
Where an experienced teacher could remove half a dozen bad habits in
as many months without the child's knowing it, the mother scolds and
spanks along the years, or resignedly lets the small people trample
upon the rights of their elders, in serene conviction that her methods
must be right; for is she not their mother?

The unnatural mother, who is possessed of enough intelligence and
knowledge to recognise her own deficiencies, gladly intrusts her
children to superior care for part of the time, and constantly learns
by it herself.

The mother-love, which is so far strained by the difficulties of
rearing children in the home as to frequently give way to
irritability, weariness, and even bad temper, would be kept fresh and
unworn by the eight-hour rest; and the child would never learn to
despise his mother's irascibility and lack of self-control, as,
unfortunately, so many children do. To the child, happy and busy in
his day hours of education, the home-coming would be an ever new
delight, and the home--"papa and mamma's house"--a lovely place to
respect and enjoy.

Many will wonder why the mother is described as "working" during eight
ho