of
the world. You know so much, you see, and we know only our own land."

In the course of our previous studies we had been at some pains to tell
them about the big world outside, to draw sketches, maps, to make a
globe, even, out of a spherical fruit, and show the size and relation of
the countries, and to tell of the numbers of their people. All this had
been scant and in outline, but they quite understood.

I find I succeed very poorly in conveying the impression I would like to
of these women. So far from being ignorant, they were deeply wise--that
we realized more and more; and for clear reasoning, for real brain scope
and power they were A No. 1, but there were a lot of things they did not
know.

They had the evenest tempers, the most perfect patience and good
nature--one of the things most impressive about them all was the absence
of irritability. So far we had only this group to study, but afterward I
found it a common trait.

We had gradually come to feel that we were in the hands of friends, and
very capable ones at that--but we couldn't form any opinion yet of the
general level of these women.

"We want you to teach us all you can," Somel went on, her firm shapely
hands clasped on the table before her, her clear quiet eyes meeting
ours frankly. "And we want to teach you what we have that is novel and
useful. You can well imagine that it is a wonderful event to us, to have
men among us--after two thousand years. And we want to know about your
women."

What she said about our importance gave instant pleasure to Terry. I
could see by the way he lifted his head that it pleased him. But when
she spoke of our women--someway I had a queer little indescribable
feeling, not like any feeling I ever had before when "women" were
mentioned.

"Will you tell us how it came about?" Jeff pursued. "You said 'for two
thousand years'--did you have men here before that?"

"Yes," answered Zava.

They were all quiet for a little.

"You should have our full history to read--do not be alarmed--it has
been made clear and short. It took us a long time to learn how to write
history. Oh, how I should love to read yours!"

She turned with flashing eager eyes, looking from one to the other of
us.

"It would be so wonderful--would it not? To compare the history of two
thousand years, to see what the differences are--between us, who are
only mothers, and you, who are mothers and fathers, too. Of course we
see, with our birds, that the father is as useful as the mother, almost.
But among insects we find him of less importance, sometimes very little.
Is it not so with you?"

"Oh, yes, birds and bugs," Terry said, "but not among animals--have you
NO animals?"

"We have cats," she said. "The father is not very useful."

"Have you no cattle--sheep--horses?" I drew some rough outlines of these
beasts and showed them to her.

"We had, in the very old days, these," said Somel, and sketched with
swift sure touches a sort of sheep or llama, "and these"--dogs, of two
or three kinds, "that that"--pointing to my absurd but recognizable
horse.

"What became of them?" asked Jeff.

"We do not want them anymore. They took up too much room--we need all
our land to feed our people. It is such a little country, you know."

"Whatever do you do without milk?" Terry demanded incredulously.

"MILK? We have milk in abundance--our own."

"But--but--I mean for cooking--for grown people," Terry blundered, while
they looked amazed and a shade displeased.

Jeff came to the rescue. "We keep cattle for their milk, as well as
for their meat," he explained. "Cow's milk is a staple article of diet.
There is a great milk industry--to collect and distribute it."

Still they looked puzzled. I pointed to my outline of a cow. "The farmer
milks the cow," I said, and sketched a milk pail, the stool, and in
pantomime showed the man milking. "Then it is carried to the city and
distributed by milkmen--everybody has it at the door in the morning."

"Has the cow no child?" asked Somel earnestly.

"Oh, yes, of course, a calf, that is."

"Is there milk for the calf and you, too?"

It took some time to make clear to those three sweet-faced women the
process which robs the cow of her calf, and the calf of its true food;
and the talk led us into a further discussion of the meat business. They
heard it out, looking very white, and presently begged to be excused.




CHAPTER 5. A Unique History


It is no use for me to try to piece out this account with adventures.
If the people who read it are not interested in these amazing women and
their history, they will not be interested at all.

As for us--three young men to a whole landful of women--what could we
do? We did get away, as described, and were peacefully brought back
again without, as Terry complained, even the satisfaction of hitting
anybody.

There were no adventures because there was nothing to fight. There were
no wild beasts in the country and very few tame ones. Of these I might
as well stop to describe the one common pet of the country. Cats, of
course. But such cats!

What do you suppose these Lady Burbanks had done with their cats? By 