vant bursts of merriment which no rebuke from
Mrs. Pettigrew seemed wholly to check.

He regaled her with accounts of his continuous consultations with Mrs.
St. Cloud, and the wisdom and good taste with which she invariably
advised him.

"Don't you admire a Platonic Friendship, Mrs. Pettigrew?"

"I do not!" said the old lady, sharply. "And what's more I don't
believe you do."

"Well, ma'am," he answered, swaying backward and forward on the hind
legs of his chair, "there are moments when I confess it looks
improbable."

Mrs. Pettigrew cocked her head on one side and turned a gimlet eye
upon him. "Look here, Elmer Skee," she said suddenly, "how much money
have you really got?"

He brought down his chair on four legs and regarded her for a few
moments, his smile widening slowly. "Well, ma'am, if I live through
the necessary expenses involved on my present undertaking, I shall
have about two thousand a year--if rents are steady."

"Which I judge you do not wish to be known?"

"If there's one thing more than another I have always admired in you,
ma'am, it is the excellence of your judgment. In it I have absolute
confidence."

Mrs. St. Cloud had some time since summoned Dr. Hale to her side for a
severe headache, but he had merely sent word that his time was fully
occupied, and recommended Dr. Bellair.

Now, observing Mrs. Pettigrew's tactics, the fair invalid resolved to
take the bull by the horns and go herself to his office. She found him
easily enough. He lifted his eyes as she entered, rose and stood with
folded arms regarding her silently. The tall, heavy figure, the full
beard, the glasses, confused even her excellent memory. After all it was
many years since they had met, and he had been but one of a multitude.

She was all sweetness and gentle apology for forcing herself upon him,
but really she had a little prejudice against women doctors--his
reputation was so great--he was so temptingly near--she was in such
pain--she had such perfect confidence in him--

He sat down quietly and listened, watching her from under his bent
brows. Her eyes were dropped, her voice very weak and appealing; her
words most perfectly chosen.

"I have told you," he said at length, "that I never treat women for
their petty ailments, if I can avoid it."

She shook her head in grieved acceptance, and lifted large eyes for
one of those penetrating sympathetic glances so frequently successful.

"How you must have suffered!" she said.

"I have," he replied grimly. "I have suffered a long time from having
my eyes opened too suddenly to the brainless cruelty of women, Mrs.
James."

She looked at him again, searchingly, and gave a little cry. "Dick
Hale!" she said.

"Yes, Dick Hale. Brother to poor little Joe Medway, whose foolish
young heart you broke, among others; whose death you are responsible
for."

She was looking at him with widening wet eyes. "Ah! If you only knew
how I, too, have suffered over that!" she said. "I was scarce more
than a girl myself, then. I was careless, not heartless. No one knew
what pain I was bearing, then. I liked the admiration of those nice
boys--I never realized any of them would take it seriously. That has
been a heavy shadow on my life, Dr. Hale--the fear that I was the
thoughtless cause of that terrible thing. And you have never forgiven
me. I do not wonder."

He was looking at her in grim silence again, wishing he had not
spoken.

"So that is why you have never been to The Cottonwoods since I came,"
she pursued. "And I am responsible for all your loneliness. O, how
dreadful!"

Again he rose to his feet.

"No, madam, you mistake. You were responsible for my brother's death,
and for a bitter awakening on my part, but you are in no way
responsible for my attitude since. That is wholly due to myself. Allow
me again to recommend Dr. Jane Bellair, an excellent physician and
even more accessible."

He held the door for her, and she went out, not wholly dissatisfied
with her visit. She would have been far more displeased could she have
followed his thoughts afterward.

"What a Consummate Ass I have been all my life!" he was meditating.
"Because I met this particular type of sex parasite, to deliberately
go sour--and forego all chance of happiness. Like a silly girl. A
fool girl who says, 'I will never marry!' just because of some quarrel
* * * But the girl never keeps her word. A man must."

The days were long to Vivian now, and dragged a little, for all her
industry.

Mrs. St. Cloud tried to revive their former intimacy, but the girl could
not renew it on the same basis. She, too, had sympathized with Mr.
Dykeman, and now sympathized somewhat with Mr. Skee. But since that
worthy man still volubly discoursed on Platonism, and his fair friend
openly agreed in this view, there seemed no real ground for distress.

Mrs. Pettigrew remained ailing and rather captious. She had a
telephone put at her bedside, and ran her household affairs
efficiently, with Vivian as lieutenant, and the ever-faithful Jeanne
to uphold the honor of the cuisine. Also she could consult her
physician, and demanded his presence at all hours.

He openly ig