
believe him.

"Why, dear," she said, "if your ranch is as near as that it would be
perfectly easy for me to come in to the business--with a car. I can
afford a car soon."

"But I tell you there's no need any more," said he. "Don't you
understand? This is a paying fruit ranch, with land rented to advantage,
and a competent manager right there running it. It's simply changed
owners. I'm the owner now! There's two or three thousand a year to be
made on it--has been made on it! There is a home for my people--a home
for us! Oh, my beloved girl! My darling! My own sweetheart! Surely you
won't refuse me now!"

Diantha's head swam dizzily.

"Ross," she urged, "you don't understand! I've built up a good business
here--a real successful business. Mother is in it; father's to come
down; there is a big patronage; it grows. I can't give it up!"

"Not for me? Not when I can offer you a home at last? Not when I show
you that there is no longer any need of your earning money?" he said
hotly.

"But, dear--dear!" she protested. "It isn't for the money; it is the
work I want to do--it is my work! You are so happy now that you can do
your work--at last! This is mine!"

When he spoke again his voice was low and stern.

"Do you mean that you love--your work--better than you love me?"

"No! It isn't that! That's not fair!" cried the girl. "Do you love your
work better than you love me? Of course not! You love both. So do I.
Can't you see? Why should I have to give up anything?"

"You do not have to," he said patiently. "I cannot compel you to marry
me. But now, when at last--after these awful years--I can really offer
you a home--you refuse!"

"I have not refused," she said slowly.

His voice lightened again.

"Ah, dearest! And you will not! You will marry me?"

"I will marry you, Ross!"

"And when? When, dearest?"

"As soon as you are ready."

"But--can you drop this at once?"

"I shall not drop it."

Her voice was low, very low, but clear and steady.

He rose to his feet with a muffled exclamation, and walked the length of
the piazza and back.

"Do you realize that you are saying no to me, Diantha?"

"You are mistaken, dear. I have said that I will marry you whenever you
choose. But it is you who are saying, 'I will not marry a woman with a
business.'"

"This is foolishness!" he said sharply. "No man--that is a man--would
marry a woman and let her run a business."

"You are mistaken," she answered. "One of the finest men I ever knew has
asked me to marry him--and keep on with my work!"

"Why didn't you take him up?"

"Because I didn't love him." She stopped, a sob in her voice, and he
caught her in his arms again.

It was late indeed when he went away, walking swiftly, with a black
rebellion in his heart; and Diantha dragged herself to bed.

She was stunned, deadened, exhausted; torn with a desire to run after
him and give up--give up anything to hold his love. But something,
partly reason and partly pride, kept saying within her: "I have not
refused him; he has refused me!"




CHAPTER XIII. ALL THIS.


     They laid before her conquering feet
      The spoils of many lands;
     Their crowns shone red upon her head
      Their scepters in her hands.

     She heard two murmuring at night,
      Where rose-sweet shadows rest;
     And coveted the blossom red
      He laid upon her breast.


When Madam Weatherstone shook the plentiful dust of Orchardina from
her expensive shoes, and returned to adorn the more classic groves of
Philadelphia, Mrs. Thaddler assumed to hold undisputed sway as a social
leader.

The Social Leader she meant to be; and marshalled her forces to that
end. She Patronized here, and Donated there; revised her visiting list
with rigid exclusiveness; secured an Eminent Professor and a
Noted Writer as visitors, and gave entertainments of almost Roman
magnificence.

Her husband grew more and more restive under the rising tide of social
exactions in dress and deportment; and spent more and more time behind
his fast horses, or on the stock-ranch where he raised them. As a
neighbor and fellow ranchman, he scraped acquaintance with Ross Warden,
and was able to render him many small services in the process of
settling.

Mrs. Warden remembered his visit to Jopalez, and it took her some time
to rearrange him in her mind as a person of wealth and standing. Having
so rearranged him, on sufficient evidence, she and her daughters became
most friendly, and had hopes of establishing valuable acquaintance in
the town. "It's not for myself I care," she would explain to Ross,
every day in the week and more on Sundays, "but for the girls. In that
dreadful Jopalez there was absolutely _no_ opportunity for them; but
here, with horses, there is no reason we should not have friends. You
must consider your sisters, Ross! Do be more cordial to Mr. Thaddler."

But Ross could not at present be cordial to anybody. His unexpected good
fortune, the freedom from hated cares, and chance to work out his mighty
theories on the faithful guinea-pig, ought to have filled his soul with
joy; but Diantha's cruel obstinacy had embittered his cup of joy. He
could no