to enlarge."

Then they plunged into a discussion of the winter's plans. The day
service department and its employment agency was to go on at the New
Union House, with Mrs. Jessup as manager; the present establishment was
to be run as a hotel and restaurant, and the depot for the cooked food
delivery.

Mrs. Thorvald and her husband were installed by themselves in another
new venture; a small laundry outside the town. This place employed
several girls steadily, and the motor wagon found a new use between
meals, in collecting and delivering laundry parcels.

"It simplifies it a lot--to get the washing out of the place and the
girls off my mind," said Diantha. "Now I mean to buckle down and learn
the hotel business--thoroughly, and develop this cooked food delivery to
perfection."

"Modest young lady," smiled her mother. "Where do you mean to stop--if
ever?"

"I don't mean to stop till I'm dead," Diantha answered; "but I don't
mean to undertake any more trades, if that is what you mean. You know
what I'm after--to get 'housework' on a business basis, that's all; and
prove, prove, PROVE what a good business it is. There's the cleaning
branch--that's all started and going well in the day service. There's
the washing--that's simple and easy. Laundry work's no mystery. But
the food part is a big thing. It's an art, a science, a business, and
a handicraft. I had the handicraft to start with; I'm learning the
business; but I've got a lot to learn yet in the science and art of it."


"Don't do too much at once," her mother urged. "You've got to cater to
people as they are."

"I know it," the girl agreed. "They must be led, step by step--the
natural method. It's a big job, but not too big. Out of all the women
who have done housework for so many ages, surely it's not too much to
expect one to have a special genius for it!"

Her mother gazed at her with loving admiration.

"That's just what you have, Dina--a special genius for housework. I wish
there were more of you!"

"There are plenty of me, mother dear, only they haven't come out. As
soon as I show 'em how to make the thing pay, you'll find that we have
a big percentage of this kind of ability. It's all buried now in the
occasional 'perfect housekeeper.'

"But they won't leave their husbands, Dina."

"They don't need to," the girl answered cheerfully. "Some of them
aren't married yet; some of them have lost their husbands, and _some_
of them"--she said this a little bitterly--"have husbands who will be
willing to let their wives grow."

"Not many, I'm afraid," said Mrs. Bell, also with some gloom.

Diantha lightened up again. "Anyhow, here you are, mother dear! And
for this year I propose that you assume the financial management of the
whole business at a salary of $1,000 'and found.' How does that suit
you?"

Mrs. Bell looked at her unbelievingly.

"You can't afford it, Dina!"

"Oh, yes, I can--you know I can, because you've got the accounts. I'm
going to make big money this year."

"But you'll need it. This hotel and restaurant business may not do
well."

"Now, mother, you _know_ we're doing well. Look here!" And Diantha
produced her note-book.

"Here's the little laundry place; its fittings come to so much, wages
so much, collection and delivery so much, supplies so much--and already
enough patronage engaged to cover. It will be bigger in winter, a lot,
with transients, and this hotel to fall back on; ought to clear at least
a thousand a year. The service club don't pay me anything, of course;
that is for the girls' benefit; but the food delivery is doing better
than I dared hope."

Mrs. Bell knew the figures better than Diantha, even, and they went over
them carefully again. If the winter's patronage held on to equal the
summer's--and the many transient residents ought to increase it--they
would have an average of twenty families a week to provide for--one
hundred persons.

The expenses were:


     Food for 100 at $250 a week.  Per capita.   $600
             ---     per year $13,000

     Labor--delivery man.  $600
     Head cook.  $600
     Two assistant cooks.  $1,040
     Three washers and packers.  $1,560
     Office girl.  $520
          ---     Per year $4,320

     Rent, kitchen, office, etc.  $500
     Rent of motor.  $300
     Rent of cases.  $250
     Gasolene and repairs.  $630
              ---     Per year $1,680

     Total.  $19,000


"How do you make the gasolene and repairs as much as that?" asked Mrs.
Bell.

"It's margin, mother--makes it even money. It won't be so much,
probably."

The income was simple and sufficient. They charged $5.00 a week per
capita for three meals, table d'hote, delivered thrice daily. Frequent
orders for extra meals really gave them more than they set down, but the
hundred-person estimate amounted to $26,000 a year.

"Now, see," said Diantha triumphantly; "subtract all that expense list
(and it is a liberal one), and we have $7,000 left. I can buy the car
and the cases this year and have $1,600 over! More; because if I do buy
them I can leave off some of the interest, and the rent of kitchen and
office comes to Union House! Then ther