 *       *       *       *

In all this atmosphere of wooings and weddings, Vivian walked apart,
as one in a bad dream that could never end. That day when Dr. Bellair
left her on the hill, left her alone in a strange new horrible world,
was still glaring across her consciousness, the end of one life, the
bar to any other. Its small events were as clear to her as those which
stand out so painfully on a day of death; all that led up to the
pleasant walk, when an eager girl mounted the breezy height, and a
sad-faced woman came down from it.

She had waited long and came home slowly, dreading to see a face she
knew, dreading worst of all to see Morton. The boy she had known so
long, the man she was beginning to know, had changed to an
unbelievable horror; and the love which had so lately seemed real to
her recoiled upon her heart with a sense of hopeless shame.

She wished--eagerly, desperately, she wished--she need never see him
again. She thought of the man's resource of running away--if she could
just _go_, go at once, and write to him from somewhere.

Distant Bainville seemed like a haven of safety; even the decorous,
narrow, monotony of its dim life had a new attraction. These terrors
were not in Bainville, surely. Then the sickening thought crept in that
perhaps they were--only they did not know it. Besides, she had no money
to go with. If only she had started that little school sooner! Write to
her father for money she would not. No, she must bear it here.

The world was discolored in the girl's eyes. Love had become a horror
and marriage impossible. She pushed the idea from her, impotently, as
one might push at a lava flow.

In her wide reading she had learned in a vague way of "evil"--a
distant undescribed evil which was in the world, and which must be
avoided. She had known that there was such a thing as "sin," and
abhorred the very thought of it.

Morton's penitential confessions had given no details; she had
pictured him only as being "led astray," as being "fast," even perhaps
"wicked." Wickedness could be forgiven; and she had forgiven him,
royally. But wickedness was one thing, disease was another.
Forgiveness was no cure.

The burden of new knowledge so distressed her that she avoided the
family entirely that evening, avoided Susie, went to her grandmother
and asked if she might come and sleep on the lounge in her room.

"Surely, my child, glad to have you," said Mrs. Pettigrew
affectionately. "Better try my bed--there's room a-plenty."

The girl lay long with those old arms about her, crying quietly. Her
grandmother asked no questions, only patted her softly from time to
time, and said, "There! There!" in a pleasantly soothing manner.
After some time she remarked, "If you want to say things, my dear,
say 'em--anything you please."

In the still darkness they talked long and intimately; and the wise
old head straightened things out somewhat for the younger one.

"Doctors don't realize how people feel about these matters," said Mrs.
Pettigrew. "They are so used to all kinds of ghastly things they forget
that other folks can't stand 'em. She was too hard on you, dearie."

But Vivian defended the doctor. "Oh, no, Grandma. She did
it beautifully. And it hurt her so. She told me about her
own--disappointment."

"Yes, I remember her as a girl, you see. A fine sweet girl she was
too. It was an awful blow--and she took it hard. It has made her
bitter, I think, perhaps; that and the number of similar cases she had
to cope with."

"But, Grandma--is it--_can_ it be as bad as she said? Seventy-five per
cent! Three-quarters of--of everybody!"

"Not everybody dear, thank goodness. Our girls are mostly clean, and
they save the race, I guess."

"I don't even want to _see_ a man again!" said the girl with low
intensity.

"Shouldn't think you would, at first. But, dear child--just brace
yourself and look it fair in the face! The world's no worse than it
was yesterday--just because you know more about it!"

"No," Vivian admitted, "But it's like uncovering a charnel house!" she
shuddered.

"Never saw a charnel house myself," said the old lady, "even with the
lid on. But now see here child; you mustn't feel as if all men were
Unspeakable Villains. They are just ignorant boys--and nobody ever
tells 'em the truth. Nobody used to know it, for that matter. All this
about gonorrhea is quite newly discovered--it has set the doctors all
by the ears. Having women doctors has made a difference too--lots of
difference."

"Besides," she went on after a pause, "things are changing very fast
now, since the general airing began. Dr. Prince Morrow in New York,
with that society of his--(I can never remember the name--makes me
think of tooth brushes) has done much; and the popular magazines have
taken it up. You must have seen some of those articles, Vivian."

"I have," the girl said, "but I couldn't bear to read them--ever."

"That's it!" responded her grandmother, tartly; "we bring up girls to
think it is not proper to know anything about the worst danger before
them. Proper!--Why my dear child, the young girls are precisely the ones
_to_ know! it