town joke, as old as they were, that
"the three of them made a full yard;" and had frowned down as a
profane impertinent the man--a little sore under some effect of
gossip--who had amended it with "make an 'ell, I say."

Safely seated in their several rocking chairs, and severally rocking
them, the Misses Foote burst forth, as was their custom, in
simultaneous, though by no means identical remarks.

"I suppose you've heard about Morton Elder?"

"What do you think Mort Elder's been doing now?"

"We've got bad news for poor Miss Elder!"

Mrs. Lane was intensely interested. Even Mr. Lane showed signs of
animation.

"I'm not surprised," he said.

"He's done it now," opined Miss Josie with conviction. "I always said
Rella Elder was spoiling that boy."

"It's too bad--after all she's done for him! He always was a scamp!"
Thus Miss Sallie.

"I've been afraid of it all along," Miss Rebecca was saying, her voice
booming through the lighter tones of her sisters. "I always said he'd
never get through college."

"But who is Morton Elder, and what has he done?" asked Mrs. Williams
as soon as she could be heard.

This lady now proved a most valuable asset. She was so new to the
town, and had been so immersed in the suddenly widening range of her
unsalaried duties as "minister's wife," that she had never even heard
of Morton Elder.

A new resident always fans the languishing flame of local
conversation. The whole shopworn stock takes on a fresh lustre, topics
long trampled flat in much discussion lift their heads anew, opinions
one scarce dared to repeat again become almost authoritative, old
stories flourish freshly, acquiring new detail and more vivid color.

Mrs. Lane, seizing her opportunity while the sisters gasped a momentary
amazement at anyone's not knowing the town scapegrace, and taking
advantage of her position as old friend and near neighbor of the family
under discussion, swept into the field under such headway that even the
Foote girls remained silent perforce; surcharged, however, and holding
their breaths in readiness to burst forth at the first opening.

"He's the nephew--orphan nephew--of Miss Elder--who lives right back
of us--our yards touch--we've always been friends--went to school
together, Rella's never married--she teaches, you know--and her
brother--he owned the home--it's all hers now, he died all of a sudden
and left two children--Morton and Susie. Mort was about seven years
old and Susie just a baby. He's been an awful cross--but she just
idolizes him--she's spoiled him, I tell her."

Mrs. Lane had to breathe, and even the briefest pause left her stranded
to wait another chance. The three social benefactors proceeded to
distribute their information in a clattering torrent. They sought to
inform Mrs. Williams in especial, of numberless details of the early
life and education of their subject, matters which would have been
treated more appreciatively if they had not been blessed with the later
news; and, at the same time, each was seeking for a more dramatic
emphasis to give this last supply of incident with due effect.

No regular record is possible where three persons pour forth statement
and comment in a rapid, tumultuous stream, interrupted by cross
currents of heated contradiction, and further varied by the
exclamations and protests of three hearers, or at least, of two; for
the one man present soon relapsed into disgusted silence.

Mrs. Williams, turning a perplexed face from one to the other, inwardly
condemning the darkening flood of talk, yet conscious of a sinful
pleasure in it, and anxious as a guest, _and_ a minister's wife, to be
most amiable, felt like one watching three kinetescopes at once. She
saw, in confused pictures of blurred and varying outline, Orella Elder,
the young New England girl, only eighteen, already a "school ma'am,"
suddenly left with two children to bring up, and doing it, as best she
could. She saw the boy, momentarily changing, in his shuttlecock flight
from mouth to mouth, through pale shades of open mischief to the black
and scarlet of hinted sin, the terror of the neighborhood, the darling
of his aunt, clever, audacious, scandalizing the quiet town.

"Boys are apt to be mischievous, aren't they?" she suggested when it
was possible.

"He's worse than mischievous," Mr. Lane assured her sourly. "There's a
mean streak in that family."

"That's on his mother's side," Mrs. Lane hastened to add. "She was a
queer girl--came from New York."

The Foote girls began again, with rich profusion of detail, their
voices rising shrill, one above the other, and playing together at
their full height like emulous fountains.

"We ought not to judge, you know;" urged Mrs. Williams. "What do you
say he's really done?"

Being sifted, it appeared that this last and most terrible performance
was to go to "the city" with a group of "the worst boys of college,"
to get undeniably drunk, to do some piece of mischief. (Here was great
licence in opinion, and in contradiction.)

"_Anyway_ he's to be suspended!" said Miss Rebecca with finality.

"Suspended!" Miss Josie's voice rose in scorn. "_Expelled!_ The