 Terry.

"Ye--es," Jeff agreed. "Of course--and yet--"

"And yet--what! Come, you obdurate sentimentalist--what are you thinking
about?"

"They may have some peculiar division of labor we've never heard of," I
suggested. "The men may live in separate towns, or they may have subdued
them--somehow--and keep them shut up. But there must be some."

"That last suggestion of yours is a nice one, Van," Terry protested.
"Same as they've got us subdued and shut up! you make me shiver."

"Well, figure it out for yourself, anyway you please. We saw plenty of
kids, the first day, and we've seen those girls--"

"Real girls!" Terry agreed, in immense relief. "Glad you mentioned
'em. I declare, if I thought there was nothing in the country but those
grenadiers I'd jump out the window."

"Speaking of windows," I suggested, "let's examine ours."

We looked out of all the windows. The blinds opened easily enough, and
there were no bars, but the prospect was not reassuring.

This was not the pink-walled town we had so rashly entered the day
before. Our chamber was high up, in a projecting wing of a sort of
castle, built out on a steep spur of rock. Immediately below us were
gardens, fruitful and fragrant, but their high walls followed the edge
of the cliff which dropped sheer down, we could not see how far. The
distant sound of water suggested a river at the foot.

We could look out east, west, and south. To the southeastward stretched
the open country, lying bright and fair in the morning light, but on
either side, and evidently behind, rose great mountains.

"This thing is a regular fortress--and no women built it, I can tell
you that," said Terry. We nodded agreeingly. "It's right up among the
hills--they must have brought us a long way."

"We saw some kind of swift-moving vehicles the first day," Jeff reminded
us. "If they've got motors, they ARE civilized."

"Civilized or not, we've got our work cut out for us to get away from
here. I don't propose to make a rope of bedclothes and try those walls
till I'm sure there is no better way."

We all concurred on this point, and returned to our discussion as to the
women.

Jeff continued thoughtful. "All the same, there's something funny about
it," he urged. "It isn't just that we don't see any men--but we don't
see any signs of them. The--the--reaction of these women is different
from any that I've ever met."

"There is something in what you say, Jeff," I agreed. "There is a
different--atmosphere."

"They don't seem to notice our being men," he went on. "They treat
us--well--just as they do one another. It's as if our being men was a
minor incident."

I nodded. I'd noticed it myself. But Terry broke in rudely.

"Fiddlesticks!" he said. "It's because of their advanced age. They're
all grandmas, I tell you--or ought to be. Great aunts, anyhow. Those
girls were girls all right, weren't they?"

"Yes--" Jeff agreed, still slowly. "But they weren't afraid--they flew
up that tree and hid, like schoolboys caught out of bounds--not like shy
girls."

"And they ran like marathon winners--you'll admit that, Terry," he
added.

Terry was moody as the days passed. He seemed to mind our confinement
more than Jeff or I did; and he harped on Alima, and how near he'd come
to catching her. "If I had--" he would say, rather savagely, "we'd have
had a hostage and could have made terms."

But Jeff was getting on excellent terms with his tutor, and even his
guards, and so was I. It interested me profoundly to note and study
the subtle difference between these women and other women, and try to
account for them. In the matter of personal appearance, there was a
great difference. They all wore short hair, some few inches at most;
some curly, some not; all light and clean and fresh-looking.

"If their hair was only long," Jeff would complain, "they would look so
much more feminine."

I rather liked it myself, after I got used to it. Why we should so
admire "a woman's crown of hair" and not admire a Chinaman's queue is
hard to explain, except that we are so convinced that the long hair
"belongs" to a woman. Whereas the "mane" in horses is on both, and in
lions, buffalos, and such creatures only on the male. But I did miss
it--at first.

Our time was quite pleasantly filled. We were free of the garden below
our windows, quite long in its irregular rambling shape, bordering the
cliff. The walls were perfectly smooth and high, ending in the masonry
of the building; and as I studied the great stones I became convinced
that the whole structure was extremely old. It was built like the
pre-Incan architecture in Peru, of enormous monoliths, fitted as closely
as mosaics.

"These folks have a history, that's sure," I told the others. "And SOME
time they were fighters--else why a fortress?"

I said we were free of the garden, but not wholly alone in it. There
was always a string of those uncomfortably strong women sitting about,
always one of them watching us even if the others were reading, playing
games, or busy at some kind of handiwork.

"When I see them knit," Terry said, "I can almost call them feminine."

"That doesn't prove an