t all his strength was of small avail against those grim, quiet
women.

We were allowed to visit him freely, but he had only his room, and a
small high-walled garden to walk in, while the preparations for our
departure were under way.

Three of us were to go: Terry, because he must; I, because two were
safer for our flyer, and the long boat trip to the coast; Ellador,
because she would not let me go without her.

If Jeff had elected to return, Celis would have gone too--they were the
most absorbed of lovers; but Jeff had no desire that way.

"Why should I want to go back to all our noise and dirt, our vice and
crime, our disease and degeneracy?" he demanded of me privately. We
never spoke like that before the women. "I wouldn't take Celis there for
anything on earth!" he protested. "She'd die! She'd die of horror and
shame to see our slums and hospitals. How can you risk it with Ellador?
You'd better break it to her gently before she really makes up her
mind."

Jeff was right. I ought to have told her more fully than I did, of all
the things we had to be ashamed of. But it is very hard to bridge the
gulf of as deep a difference as existed between our life and theirs. I
tried to.

"Look here, my dear," I said to her. "If you are really going to my
country with me, you've got to be prepared for a good many shocks. It's
not as beautiful as this--the cities, I mean, the civilized parts--of
course the wild country is."

"I shall enjoy it all," she said, her eyes starry with hope. "I
understand it's not like ours. I can see how monotonous our quiet life
must seem to you, how much more stirring yours must be. It must be
like the biological change you told me about when the second sex
was introduced--a far greater movement, constant change, with new
possibilities of growth."

I had told her of the later biological theories of sex, and she
was deeply convinced of the superior advantages of having two, the
superiority of a world with men in it.

"We have done what we could alone; perhaps we have some things better
in a quiet way, but you have the whole world--all the people of the
different nations--all the long rich history behind you--all the
wonderful new knowledge. Oh, I just can't wait to see it!"

What could I do? I told her in so many words that we had our unsolved
problems, that we had dishonesty and corruption, vice and crime, disease
and insanity, prisons and hospitals; and it made no more impression on
her than it would to tell a South Sea Islander about the temperature of
the Arctic Circle. She could intellectually see that it was bad to have
those things; but she could not FEEL it.

We had quite easily come to accept the Herland life as normal, because
it was normal--none of us make any outcry over mere health and peace
and happy industry. And the abnormal, to which we are all so sadly well
acclimated, she had never seen.

The two things she cared most to hear about, and wanted most to see,
were these: the beautiful relation of marriage and the lovely women
who were mothers and nothing else; beyond these her keen, active mind
hungered eagerly for the world life.

"I'm almost as anxious to go as you are yourself," she insisted, "and
you must be desperately homesick."

I assured her that no one could be homesick in such a paradise as
theirs, but she would have none of it.

"Oh, yes--I know. It's like those little tropical islands you've told me
about, shining like jewels in the big blue sea--I can't wait to see the
sea! The little island may be as perfect as a garden, but you always
want to get back to your own big country, don't you? Even if it is bad
in some ways?"

Ellador was more than willing. But the nearer it came to our really
going, and to my having to take her back to our "civilization," after
the clean peace and beauty of theirs, the more I began to dread it, and
the more I tried to explain.

Of course I had been homesick at first, while we were prisoners, before
I had Ellador. And of course I had, at first, rather idealized my
country and its ways, in describing it. Also, I had always accepted
certain evils as integral parts of our civilization and never dwelt on
them at all. Even when I tried to tell her the worst, I never remembered
some things--which, when she came to see them, impressed her at once, as
they had never impressed me. Now, in my efforts at explanation, I began
to see both ways more keenly than I had before; to see the painful
defects of my own land, the marvelous gains of this.

In missing men we three visitors had naturally missed the larger part of
life, and had unconsciously assumed that they must miss it too. It took
me a long time to realize--Terry never did realize--how little it
meant to them. When we say MEN, MAN, MANLY, MANHOOD, and all the other
masculine derivatives, we have in the background of our minds a huge
vague crowded picture of the world and all its activities. To grow up
and "be a man," to "act like a man"--the meaning and connotation is
wide indeed. That vast background is full of marching columns of men, of
changing lines of men, of long processions of men; of men steering