d forgotten among the family of nations. We had
called it "the family of nations," and they liked the phrase immensely.

They were deeply aroused on the subject of evolution; indeed, the whole
field of natural science drew them irresistibly. Any number of them
would have risked everything to go to the strange unknown lands and
study; but we could take only one, and it had to be Ellador, naturally.

We planned greatly about coming back, about establishing a connecting
route by water; about penetrating those vast forests and civilizing--or
exterminating--the dangerous savages. That is, we men talked of that
last--not with the women. They had a definite aversion to killing
things.

But meanwhile there was high council being held among the wisest of them
all. The students and thinkers who had been gathering facts from us all
this time, collating and relating them, and making inferences, laid the
result of their labors before the council.

Little had we thought that our careful efforts at concealment had been
so easily seen through, with never a word to show us that they saw. They
had followed up words of ours on the science of optics, asked innocent
questions about glasses and the like, and were aware of the defective
eyesight so common among us.

With the lightest touch, different women asking different questions at
different times, and putting all our answers together like a picture
puzzle, they had figured out a sort of skeleton chart as to the
prevalence of disease among us. Even more subtly with no show of horror
or condemnation, they had gathered something--far from the truth, but
something pretty clear--about poverty, vice, and crime. They even had
a goodly number of our dangers all itemized, from asking us about
insurance and innocent things like that.

They were well posted as to the different races, beginning with their
poison-arrow natives down below and widening out to the broad racial
divisions we had told them about. Never a shocked expression of the face
or exclamation of revolt had warned us; they had been extracting the
evidence without our knowing it all this time, and now were studying
with the most devout earnestness the matter they had prepared.

The result was rather distressing to us. They first explained the matter
fully to Ellador, as she was the one who purposed visiting the Rest
of the World. To Celis they said nothing. She must not be in any way
distressed, while the whole nation waited on her Great Work.

Finally Jeff and I were called in. Somel and Zava were there, and
Ellador, with many others that we knew.

They had a great globe, quite fairly mapped out from the small section
maps in that compendium of ours. They had the different peoples of the
earth roughly outlined, and their status in civilization indicated.
They had charts and figures and estimates, based on the facts in that
traitorous little book and what they had learned from us.

Somel explained: "We find that in all your historic period, so much
longer than ours, that with all the interplay of services, the exchange
of inventions and discoveries, and the wonderful progress we so admire,
that in this widespread Other World of yours, there is still much
disease, often contagious."

We admitted this at once.

"Also there is still, in varying degree, ignorance, with prejudice and
unbridled emotion."

This too was admitted.

"We find also that in spite of the advance of democracy and the increase
of wealth, that there is still unrest and sometimes combat."

Yes, yes, we admitted it all. We were used to these things and saw no
reason for so much seriousness.

"All things considered," they said, and they did not say a hundredth
part of the things they were considering, "we are unwilling to expose
our country to free communication with the rest of the world--as yet. If
Ellador comes back, and we approve her report, it may be done later--but
not yet.

"So we have this to ask of you gentlemen [they knew that word was held
a title of honor with us], that you promise not in any way to betray the
location of this country until permission--after Ellador's return."

Jeff was perfectly satisfied. He thought they were quite right. He
always did. I never saw an alien become naturalized more quickly than
that man in Herland.

I studied it awhile, thinking of the time they'd have if some of our
contagions got loose there, and concluded they were right. So I agreed.

Terry was the obstacle. "Indeed I won't!" he protested. "The first
thing I'll do is to get an expedition fixed up to force an entrance into
Ma-land."

"Then," they said quite calmly, "he must remain an absolute prisoner,
always."

"Anesthesia would be kinder," urged Moadine.

"And safer," added Zava.

"He will promise, I think," said Ellador.

And he did. With which agreement we at last left Herland.


F