
their ships into new seas, exploring unknown mountains, breaking horses,
herding cattle, ploughing and sowing and reaping, toiling at the forge
and furnace, digging in the mine, building roads and bridges and high
cathedrals, managing great businesses, teaching in all the colleges,
preaching in all the churches; of men everywhere, doing everything--"the
world."

And when we say WOMEN, we think FEMALE--the sex.

But to these women, in the unbroken sweep of this two-thousand-year-old
feminine civilization, the word WOMAN called up all that big background,
so far as they had gone in social development; and the word MAN meant to
them only MALE--the sex.

Of course we could TELL them that in our world men did everything; but
that did not alter the background of their minds. That man, "the male,"
did all these things was to them a statement, making no more change
in the point of view than was made in ours when we first faced the
astounding fact--to us--that in Herland women were "the world."

We had been living there more than a year. We had learned their limited
history, with its straight, smooth, upreaching lines, reaching higher
and going faster up to the smooth comfort of their present life. We
had learned a little of their psychology, a much wider field than the
history, but here we could not follow so readily. We were now well used
to seeing women not as females but as people; people of all sorts, doing
every kind of work.

This outbreak of Terry's, and the strong reaction against it, gave us
a new light on their genuine femininity. This was given me with great
clearness by both Ellador and Somel. The feeling was the same--sick
revulsion and horror, such as would be felt at some climactic blasphemy.

They had no faintest approach to such a thing in their minds, knowing
nothing of the custom of marital indulgence among us. To them the one
high purpose of motherhood had been for so long the governing law of
life, and the contribution of the father, though known to them, so
distinctly another method to the same end, that they could not, with all
their effort, get the point of view of the male creature whose desires
quite ignore parentage and seek only for what we euphoniously term "the
joys of love."

When I tried to tell Ellador that women too felt so, with us, she drew
away from me, and tried hard to grasp intellectually what she could in
no way sympathize with.

"You mean--that with you--love between man and woman expresses itself in
that way--without regard to motherhood? To parentage, I mean," she added
carefully.

"Yes, surely. It is love we think of--the deep sweet love between two.
Of course we want children, and children come--but that is not what we
think about."

"But--but--it seems so against nature!" she said. "None of the creatures
we know do that. Do other animals--in your country?"

"We are not animals!" I replied with some sharpness. "At least we
are something more--something higher. This is a far nobler and more
beautiful relation, as I have explained before. Your view seems to us
rather--shall I say, practical? Prosaic? Merely a means to an end! With
us--oh, my dear girl--cannot you see? Cannot you feel? It is the last,
sweetest, highest consummation of mutual love."

She was impressed visibly. She trembled in my arms, as I held her close,
kissing her hungrily. But there rose in her eyes that look I knew so
well, that remote clear look as if she had gone far away even though
I held her beautiful body so close, and was now on some snowy mountain
regarding me from a distance.

"I feel it quite clearly," she said to me. "It gives me a deep sympathy
with what you feel, no doubt more strongly still. But what I feel, even
what you feel, dearest, does not convince me that it is right. Until I
am sure of that, of course I cannot do as you wish."

Ellador, at times like this, always reminded me of Epictetus. "I will
put you in prison!" said his master. "My body, you mean," replied
Epictetus calmly. "I will cut your head off," said his master. "Have I
said that my head could not be cut off?" A difficult person, Epictetus.

What is this miracle by which a woman, even in your arms, may withdraw
herself, utterly disappear till what you hold is as inaccessible as the
face of a cliff?

"Be patient with me, dear," she urged sweetly. "I know it is hard for
you. And I begin to see--a little--how Terry was so driven to crime."

"Oh, come, that's a pretty hard word for it. After all, Alima was
his wife, you know," I urged, feeling at the moment a sudden burst of
sympathy for poor Terry. For a man of his temperament--and habits--it
must have been an unbearable situation.

But Ellador, for all her wide intellectual grasp, and the broad sympathy
in which their religion trained them, could not make allowance for
such--to her--sacrilegious brutality.

It was the more difficult to explain to her, because we three, in our
constant talks and lectures about the rest of the world, had naturally
avoided the seamy side; not so much from a desire to deceive, but from
wishing to put the best foot foremost for our civilization, in the face
of