d hopefulness. But no one could comfort
Vivian.

Even Dr. Bellair seemed to her present sensitiveness an alien, cruel
power. She had come like the angel with the flaming sword to stand
between her and what, now that it was gone, began to look like Paradise.

She quite forgot that she had always shrunk from Morton when he made
love too warmly, that she had been far from wholly pleased with him
when he made his appearance there, that their engagement, so far as
they had one, was tentative--"sometime, when I am good enough" not
having arrived. The unreasoning voice of the woman's nature within her
had answered, though but partially, to the deep call of the man's; and
now she missed more than she would admit to herself the tenderness
that was gone.

She had her intervals of sharp withdrawal from the memory of that
tenderness, of deep thanksgiving for her escape; but fear of a danger
only prophesied, does not obliterate memory of joys experienced.

Her grandmother watched her carefully, saying little. She forced no
confidence, made no comment, was not obtrusively affectionate, but
formed a definite decision and conveyed it clearly to Dr. Bellair.

"Look here, Jane Bellair, you've upset Vivian's dish, and quite right;
it's a good thing you did, and I don't know as you could have done it
easier."

"I couldn't have done it harder--that I know of," the doctor answered.
"I'd sooner operate on a baby--without an anæsthetic--than tell a
thing like that--to a girl like that. But it had to be done; and
nobody else would."

"You did perfectly right. I'm thankful enough, I promise you; if you
hadn't I should have had to--and goodness knows what a mess I'd have
made. But look here, the girl's going all to pieces. Now we've got to
do something for her, and do it quick."

"I know that well enough," answered her friend, "and I set about it
even before I made the incision. You've seen that little building
going up on the corner of High and Stone Streets?"

"That pretty little thing with the grass and flowers round it?"

"Yes--they got the flowers growing while the decorators finished
inside. It's a first-rate little kindergarten. I've got a list of
scholars all arranged for, and am going to pop the girl into it so
fast she can't refuse. Not that I think she will."

"Who did it?" demanded Mrs. Pettigrew. "That man Skee?"

"Mr. Skee has had something to do with it," replied the doctor,
guardedly; "but he doesn't want his name mentioned."

"Huh!" said Mrs. Pettigrew.

Vivian made no objection, though she was too listless to take up work
with enthusiasm.

As a prescription nothing could have worked better. Enough small
pupils were collected to pay the rent of the pretty place, and leave a
modest income for her.

Dr. Bellair gathered together the mothers and aunts for a series of
afternoon talks in the convenient building, Vivian assisting, and
roused much interest among them. The loving touch of little hands, the
pleasure of seeing the gay contentment of her well-ordered charges,
began to lighten the girl's heart at last. They grew so fond of her
that the mothers were jealous, but she played with and taught them so
wisely, and the youngsters were so much improved by it, that no parent
withdrew her darling.

Further than that, the new interest, the necessary reading and study,
above all the study hours of occupation acted most beneficently,
slowly, but surely steadying the nerves and comforting the heart.

There is a telling Oriental phrase describing sorrow: "And the whole
world became strait unto him." The sense of final closing down of
life, of a dull, long, narrow path between her and the grave, which
had so oppressed the girl's spirit, now changed rapidly. Here was room
to love at least, and she radiated a happy and unselfish affection
among the little ones. Here was love in return, very sweet and honest,
if shallow. Here was work; something to do, something to think about;
both in her hours with the children and those spent in study. Her work
took her out of the house, too; away from Susie and her aunt, with
their happy chatter and endless white needlework, and the gleeful
examination of presents.

Never before had she known the blessed relief of another place to go to.

When she left The Cottonwoods, as early as possible, and placed her
key in the door of the little gray house sitting among the roses, she
felt a distinct lightening of the heart. This was hers. Not her
father's, not Miss Elder's; not anybody's but hers--as long as she
could earn the rent.

She paid her board, too, in spite of deep and pained remonstrance,
forcing Miss Elder to accept it by the ultimatum "would you rather
make me go away and board somewhere else?" She could not accept favors
where she was condemned.

This, too, gave her a feeling hitherto inexperienced, deep and
inspiring. She began to hold her graceful head insensibly higher, to
walk with a freer step. Life was not ended after all, though Love had
gone. She might not be happy, but she might be useful and independent.

Then Dr. Bellair, who had by quiet friendliness and wise waiting,
regained much of her former 