time, you're quite welcome to use my room, Miss
Elder." And he departed, her blessing going with him.

More light refreshments were now in order. Mrs. St. Cloud protesting
that she wanted nothing, but finding much to praise in the delicacies
set before her. Several of the other boarders drifted in, always glad
of an extra bite before going to bed. Susie and Mr. Saunders returned
from a walk, Morton reappeared, and Jeanne, peering sharply in,
resentful of this new drain upon her pantry shelves, saw a fair,
sweet-faced woman, seated at ease, eating daintily, while Miss Elder
and Vivian waited upon her, and the men all gathered admiringly about.
Jeanne Jeaune wagged her head. "Ah, ha, Madame!" she muttered softly,
"Such as you I have met before!" Theophile she had long since sent to
bed, remaining up herself to keep an eye on the continued disturbance
in the front of the house. Vivian and Susie brought the dishes out,
and would have washed them or left them till morning for the maids.

"Truly, no," said Jeanne Jeaune; "go you to your beds; I will attend
to these."

One by one she heard them go upstairs, distant movement and soft
dissuasion as two gentlemen insisted on bearing Mrs. St. Cloud's trunk
into her room, receding voices and closing doors. There was no sound
in the dining-room now, but still she waited; the night was not yet
quiet.

Miss Elder and Susie, Vivian also, hovered about, trying to make this
new guest comfortable, in spite of her graceful protests that they
must not concern themselves in the least about her, that she wanted
nothing--absolutely nothing. At last they left her, and still later,
after some brief exchange of surprised comment and warm appreciation
of Mr. Dykeman's thoughtfulness, the family retired. Vivian, when her
long hair was smoothly braided for the night, felt an imperative need
for water.

"Don't you want some, Susie? I'll bring you a glass." But Susie only
huddled the bedclothes about her pretty shoulders and said:

"Don't bring me _anything_, until to-morrow morning!"

So her room-mate stole out softly in her wrapper, remembering that a
pitcher of cool water still stood on one of the tables. The windows to
the street let in a flood of light from a big street lamp, and she
found her way easily, but was a bit startled for a moment to find a
man still sitting there, his head upon his arms.

"Why, Morton," she said; "is that you? What are you sitting up for?
It's awfully late. I'm just after some water." She poured a glassful.
"Don't you want some?"

"No, thank you," he said. "Yes, I will. Give me some, please."

The girl gave him a glass, drank from her own and set it down, turning
to go, but he reached out and caught a flowing sleeve of her kimono.

"Don't go, Vivian! Do sit down and talk to a fellow. I've been trying
to see you for days and days."

"Why, Morton Elder, how absurd! You have certainly seen me every day,
and we've talked hours this very evening. This is no time for
conversation, surely."

"The best time in the world," he assured her. "All the other times there
are people about--dozens--hundreds--swarms! I want to talk to just you."

There were certainly no dozens or hundreds about now, but as certainly
there was one, noting with keen and disapproving interest this
midnight tête-à-tête. It did not last very long, and was harmless and
impersonal enough while it lasted.

Vivian sat for a few moments, listening patiently while the young man
talked of his discouragements, his hopes, his wishes to succeed in
life, to be worthy of her; but when the personal note sounded, when he
tried to take her hand in the semi-darkness, then her New England
conscience sounded also, and she rose to her feet and left him.

"We'll talk about that another time," she said. "Now do be quiet and
do not wake people up."

He stole upstairs, dutifully, and she crept softly back to her room
and got into bed, without eliciting more than a mild grunt from sleepy
Susie. Silence reigned at last in the house. Not for long, however.

At about half past twelve Dr. Bellair was roused from a well-earned
sleep by a light, insistent tap upon her door. She listened,
believing it to be a wind-stirred twig; but no, it was a finger
tap--quiet--repeated. She opened the door upon Jeanne in her
stocking feet.

"Your pardon, Mrs. Doctor," said the visitor, "but it is of importance.
May I speak for a little? No, I'm not ill, and we need not a light."

They sat in the clean little office, the swaying cottonwood boughs
making a changeful pattern on the floor.

"You are a doctor, and you can make an end to it--you must make an end
to it," said Jeanne, after a little hesitation. "This young man--this
nephew--he must not marry my young lady."

"What makes you think he wants to?" asked the doctor.

"I have seen, I have heard--I know," said Jeanne. "You know, all can
see that he loves her. _He!_ Not such as he for my young lady."

"Why do you object to him, Jeanne?"

"He has lived the bad life," said the woman, grimly.

"Most young men are open to criticism," said Dr. Bellair. "Have you
anything definite to tell me--anything that you c