 I was taking a walk that night too, but I
wasn't in his state of mind. To hear him rage you'd not have believed
that he loved Alima at all--you'd have thought that she was some quarry
he was pursuing, something to catch and conquer.

I think that, owing to all those differences I spoke of, they soon lost
the common ground they had at first, and were unable to meet sanely
and dispassionately. I fancy too--this is pure conjecture--that he
had succeeded in driving Alima beyond her best judgment, her real
conscience, and that after that her own sense of shame, the reaction of
the thing, made her bitter perhaps.

They quarreled, really quarreled, and after making it up once or twice,
they seemed to come to a real break--she would not be alone with him
at all. And perhaps she was a bit nervous, I don't know, but she got
Moadine to come and stay next door to her. Also, she had a sturdy
assistant detailed to accompany her in her work.

Terry had his own ideas, as I've tried to show. I daresay he thought he
had a right to do as he did. Perhaps he even convinced himself that
it would be better for her. Anyhow, he hid himself in her bedroom one
night...

The women of Herland have no fear of men. Why should they have? They
are not timid in any sense. They are not weak; and they all have strong
trained athletic bodies. Othello could not have extinguished Alima with
a pillow, as if she were a mouse.

Terry put in practice his pet conviction that a woman loves to be
mastered, and by sheer brute force, in all the pride and passion of his
intense masculinity, he tried to master this woman.

It did not work. I got a pretty clear account of it later from Ellador,
but what we heard at the time was the noise of a tremendous struggle,
and Alima calling to Moadine. Moadine was close by and came at once; one
or two more strong grave women followed.

Terry dashed about like a madman; he would cheerfully have killed
them--he told me that, himself--but he couldn't. When he swung a chair
over his head one sprang in the air and caught it, two threw themselves
bodily upon him and forced him to the floor; it was only the work of a
few moments to have him tied hand and foot, and then, in sheer pity for
his futile rage, to anesthetize him.

Alima was in a cold fury. She wanted him killed--actually.

There was a trial before the local Over Mother, and this woman, who did
not enjoy being mastered, stated her case.

In a court in our country he would have been held quite "within his
rights," of course. But this was not our country; it was theirs. They
seemed to measure the enormity of the offense by its effect upon a
possible fatherhood, and he scorned even to reply to this way of putting
it.

He did let himself go once, and explained in definite terms that they
were incapable of understanding a man's needs, a man's desires, a man's
point of view. He called them neuters, epicenes, bloodless, sexless
creatures. He said they could of course kill him--as so many insects
could--but that he despised them nonetheless.

And all those stern grave mothers did not seem to mind his despising
them, not in the least.

It was a long trial, and many interesting points were brought out as to
their views of our habits, and after a while Terry had his sentence. He
waited, grim and defiant. The sentence was: "You must go home!"




CHAPTER 12. Expelled


We had all meant to go home again. Indeed we had NOT meant--not by any
means--to stay as long as we had. But when it came to being turned out,
dismissed, sent away for bad conduct, we none of us really liked it.

Terry said he did. He professed great scorn of the penalty and the
trial, as well as all the other characteristics of "this miserable
half-country." But he knew, and we knew, that in any "whole" country we
should never have been as forgivingly treated as we had been here.

"If the people had come after us according to the directions we left,
there'd have been quite a different story!" said Terry. We found out
later why no reserve party had arrived. All our careful directions had
been destroyed in a fire. We might have all died there and no one at
home have ever known our whereabouts.

Terry was under guard now, all the time, known as unsafe, convicted of
what was to them an unpardonable sin.

He laughed at their chill horror. "Parcel of old maids!" he called them.
"They're all old maids--children or not. They don't know the first thing
about Sex."

When Terry said SEX, sex with a very large _S_, he meant the male sex,
naturally; its special values, its profound conviction of being "the
life force," its cheerful ignoring of the true life process, and its
interpretation of the other sex solely from its own point of view.

I had learned to see these things very differently since living with
Ellador; and as for Jeff, he was so thoroughly Herlandized that he
wasn't fair to Terry, who fretted sharply in his new restraint.

Moadine, grave and strong, as sadly patient as a mother with a
degenerate child, kept steady watch on him, with enough other women
close at hand to prevent an outbreak. He had no weapons, and well knew
tha