uivering ones, "that with you, when
people marry, they go right on doing this in season and out of season,
with no thought of children at all?"

"They do," I said, with some bitterness. "They are not mere parents.
They are men and women, and they love each other."

"How long?" asked Ellador, rather unexpectedly.

"How long?" I repeated, a little dashed. "Why as long as they live."

"There is something very beautiful in the idea," she admitted, still as
if she were discussing life on Mars. "This climactic expression, which,
in all the other life-forms, has but the one purpose, has with you
become specialized to higher, purer, nobler uses. It has--I judge from
what you tell me--the most ennobling effect on character. People marry,
not only for parentage, but for this exquisite interchange--and, as
a result, you have a world full of continuous lovers, ardent, happy,
mutually devoted, always living on that high tide of supreme emotion
which we had supposed to belong only to one season and one use. And you
say it has other results, stimulating all high creative work. That must
mean floods, oceans of such work, blossoming from this intense happiness
of every married pair! It is a beautiful idea!"

She was silent, thinking.

So was I.

She slipped one hand free, and was stroking my hair with it in a gentle
motherly way. I bowed my hot head on her shoulder and felt a dim sense
of peace, a restfulness which was very pleasant.

"You must take me there someday, darling," she was saying. "It is
not only that I love you so much, I want to see your country--your
people--your mother--" she paused reverently. "Oh, how I shall love your
mother!"

I had not been in love many times--my experience did not compare
with Terry's. But such as I had was so different from this that I was
perplexed, and full of mixed feelings: partly a growing sense of common
ground between us, a pleasant rested calm feeling, which I had imagined
could only be attained in one way; and partly a bewildered resentment
because what I found was not what I had looked for.

It was their confounded psychology! Here they were with this profound
highly developed system of education so bred into them that even if they
were not teachers by profession they all had a general proficiency in
it--it was second nature to them.

And no child, stormily demanding a cookie "between meals," was ever more
subtly diverted into an interest in house-building than was I when
I found an apparently imperative demand had disappeared without my
noticing it.

And all the time those tender mother eyes, those keen scientific eyes,
noting every condition and circumstance, and learning how to "take time
by the forelock" and avoid discussion before occasion arose.

I was amazed at the results. I found that much, very much, of what I had
honestly supposed to be a physiological necessity was a psychological
necessity--or so believed. I found, after my ideas of what was essential
had changed, that my feelings changed also. And more than all, I found
this--a factor of enormous weight--these women were not provocative.
That made an immense difference.

The thing that Terry had so complained of when we first came--that they
weren't "feminine," they lacked "charm," now became a great comfort.
Their vigorous beauty was an aesthetic pleasure, not an irritant. Their
dress and ornaments had not a touch of the "come-and-find-me" element.

Even with my own Ellador, my wife, who had for a time unveiled a woman's
heart and faced the strange new hope and joy of dual parentage, she
afterward withdrew again into the same good comrade she had been at
first. They were women, PLUS, and so much plus that when they did not
choose to let the womanness appear, you could not find it anywhere.

I don't say it was easy for me; it wasn't. But when I made appeal to
her sympathies I came up against another immovable wall. She was sorry,
honestly sorry, for my distresses, and made all manner of thoughtful
suggestions, often quite useful, as well as the wise foresight I have
mentioned above, which often saved all difficulty before it arose; but
her sympathy did not alter her convictions.

"If I thought it was really right and necessary, I could perhaps bring
myself to it, for your sake, dear; but I do not want to--not at all.
You would not have a mere submission, would you? That is not the kind of
high romantic love you spoke of, surely? It is a pity, of course, that
you should have to adjust your highly specialized faculties to our
unspecialized ones."

Confound it! I hadn't married the nation, and I told her so. But she
only smiled at her own limitations and explained that she had to "think
in we's."

Confound it again! Here I'd have all my energies focused on one wish,
and before I knew it she'd have them dissipated in one direction or
another, some subject of discussion that began just at the point I was
talking about and ended miles away.

It must not be imagined that I was just repelled, ignored, left to
cherish a grievance. Not at all. My happiness was in the hands of a
larger, sweeter womanhood than I had ever imagined. Before ou