customs. How these things do open up, when
one thinks about them! Why "nurse-maid" at all! Why not have a new and
attractive name: that would help make them go to the training school,
too.

Nurse, nursing,--it isn't nursing our children want. They are not
sick, and they don't stay babies all the time they need this person.
What is it that our children need? Of course, they do need direct,
personal care; and, when they are babies, they need real
"nursing,"--just somebody to--to--well, they have to be fed,--and that
only needs a knowledge of infant physiology and nutrition; to keep the
bottles clean, of course, and be very accurate, and follow directions.
They don't need to know so much after all: the doctor tells what to
give it to eat and what not to. And the mother understands the child's
needs! Still, even for babies, they need some kind of training,--the
nurses, I mean,--not the mothers: it is divinely implanted in the
mother. And, then, mothers are studying these things now. I know ever
so many young mothers who are taking child-study now; and about
nutrition, too.

But the trouble is they can't depend on the nurses to carry out
instructions. If they were only trustworthy! Will the training schools
make them honourable? I suppose so. They would get some sense of the
importance and dignity of their work. They would be graded and
marked, of course, in their diplomas, so that one could pick out the
dependable ones; and that would gradually elevate the standard. The
trouble is, of course, when they go out. Children must be out of
doors; and, in cities where we have no yards, they cannot be under the
mother's eye, so they must be out with the nurse-maid. That's
perfectly logical. Then there are the other nurse-maids. One cannot
keep them isolated: that's out of the question. And if they have
admirers, as they do, of course,--young girls always will have
admirers, and training schools will not alter that,--why, if they meet
their admirers, it has a tendency to make them careless. That is
natural. We must allow for such things. And it is a perfectly natural
temptation to take the baby to see their own families. We forbid it,
of course; but I admit that it is a temptation. And there are all
those awful risks of diseases and things. Now, if their families were
nicer people and lived in nicer places,--but then they wouldn't want
to be nurse-maids! But if the training school raises wages and
standards, that will have an effect on the class of people who take
up the work.

It certainly is the noblest, most beautiful, most important work in
the world,--the training of children. I wonder why our own girls do
not take it up,--our college girls. But then, of course, they wouldn't
be "nurse-maids." Perhaps, if it had another name--

Now let me think, and be fair. Would I want my sister Jessie to be a
nurse-maid? She is taking a kindergarten course, and we all approve of
that: it does help one so in all those problems that perplex a mother!
But, if she went to Mrs. MacAdoo's as a nurse-maid-- The MacAdoos are
nice people, too; and the children are as nice as any I know. They have
a Swedish nurse-maid now,--a big, hearty, wholesome-looking girl, but
stupid. Why, she cannot answer the simplest questions Harold asks,
hardly; and he's always asking them. Jessie has him in the kindergarten
where she is. I don't mean that she's the principal, but she is
training there; and she tells me what a bright child he is, and what
stupid things Christine has told him. And you see he has Jessie only
three hours a day, and Christine all the time he's awake. Jessie is
taking a special course in infant psychology, and she says Christine is
doing him a world of harm. But she is so good-natured and faithful that
they keep her. They don't realise that her being stupid is any harm to
the children, I suppose. But, if Jessie had him all the time, Harold
certainly would develope more rationally and more easily. And yet I am
sure Jessie would not take Christine's place. You see we visit the
MacAdoos, and it would be so awkward. Now, I think,--logically,--I am
approaching a--I forget the name of it, but it's a thing there's no way
out of.

We would like our nurse-maids to be ladies, but ladies are not willing
to be nurse-maids. Now will the training school make ladies--or, at
least, partial ladies--of our nurse-maids? And, if it does, will that
make them disinclined to be nurse-maids? Or can we arrange the
position of the nurse-maid, so that ladies will be willing to take it?
What is the real difference between Jessie's position and
Christine's? Why, Jessie has a lot of children come to her part of the
time; and Christine has a few children, and goes to them all the time.
And Jessie has,--or will have when she's graduated and has a
kindergarten of her own, as I daresay she will,--she has control of
the children while they are with her, and can carry out her
principles. The mothers even consult her sometimes.

But Christine has to carry out the mother's orders. She does what she
is told--or ought to. No, Jessie never would be willing to take Mrs.
MacAdoo's orders abou