er-varying results. "The nature"
of any given creature varies with its circumstances,--give it
time,--as in the above case of the dog and cat; but the whole scale of
behaviour is "natural" in its place and time. "A state of nature" is
not a period with an exact date, nor any one grade of conduct. That
conduct which is most advantageous to a creature under given
circumstances is natural. The only conduct which is "unnatural" would
be that which was exhibited in contradiction to the laws of nature, if
such were possible.

In this sense an ascetic life is unnatural, as meaning destruction to
the individual and race; but, in the sense that the ascetic fondly
believes he is acting for his ultimate benefit, his conduct is
"natural," after all.

A wild rose is "natural," a garden rose or hot-house rose is
"cultivated," a velvet rose on a bonnet is "artificial." Yet it is as
natural for man to cultivate and imitate for his own good pleasure as
for a bee to store honey. When we were in what we usually call "a
state of nature," we did not keep clean, wear clothes, go to school or
to church. Yet cleanliness and clothing, education and religion, are
natural products of "human nature."

When we apply the word to human conduct, we ought to be clear in our
own minds as to whether we mean "natural"--_i.e._, primitive,
uncivilised, savage--or natural,--suited to man's present character
and conditions. Primitive man did not send his children to school, but
we do not consider it unnatural that we do send ours. Primitive woman
carried her naked baby in her arms; modern woman pushes her
much-dressed infant in a perambulator. But there is nothing unnatural
in preferring the perambulator. It is natural to do what is easiest
for the mother and best for the baby; and our modern skill and
intelligence, our knowledge and experience, are as natural to us as
ignorance, superstition, and ferocity were to our primal ancestors.

With this in mind, let us look at the use of the term "natural" as
applied to mothers. What sort of mother do we praise as natural, and
what sort do we blame as "unnatural"? Is our term used with reference
to a period of development, "natural" motherhood, meaning primitive,
savage motherhood? or is it used with reference to the exercise of
that intelligence, acquired knowledge and skill, and array of
conveniences, which are natural to civilised man to-day? I think it
will be found that in most cases we unconsciously use it in the first
sense, natural meaning merely primitive or even animal, and with but
too good reason, if we study the behaviour we are describing.

Motherhood is pre-eminently a "natural" function in both senses. It might
almost be called _the_ natural function, as reproduction seems to be more
important in the evolution of species than even self-preservation. It
would seem as if the instinct of self-preservation were given merely to
keep the creatures alive for purposes of reproduction; for, when the two
forces come into conflict, the reproductive instinct is the stronger.

The reproductive functions are performed by both male and female; but,
as species developes and more conscious effort is applied to the great
task, the female has the larger share.

In furnishing nutrition to the young, order mammalia gives the entire
task to the mother; and their care, protection, and defence are mainly
hers.

With the human species, in proportion to its development, the scales
have turned the other way. With us the father furnishes food, shelter,
and protection, save for the first period of suckling. In many cases
the mother fails even to provide this assuredly "natural" contribution
to the child's nourishment. This would be a good opportunity to call
her "unnatural"; but, if she is sufficiently assiduous with the bottle
or wet-nurse, we do not. Beyond that period the human mother merely
waits upon and watches her children in the shelter provided by the
father, and administers to them such food, clothing, and other
supplies as he furnishes.

Her educational office, too, has largely passed from her, owing to the
encroachments of the school and kindergarten. She still moulds their
morals and manners as far as she is able, and has command of their
education during the earliest and most important years.

Now is it "natural" for a mother to take no part in getting food for
children? If ever there was a natural function pertaining to
motherhood, that seems to be one. If we use the word in its primitive
sense, she certainly is "an unnatural mother" for relinquishing this
primal duty. But, if we use it in the other sense, she is quite
natural in accepting the conditions of civilised life as far as they
are advantageous to the child. Is it "natural" for a mother to submit
her children to the instruction of other extra-maternal persons? or to
call the doctor when they are sick, engage the dentist to fill their
teeth, and hire persons to help take care of them? These things are
not primitive surely, but neither are they "unnatural." The "nature"
of motherhood is to provide what is best for the child; and the
multiplied services and facil