e
it is so--so efflorescent, I suppose."

"Reminds me of a loose faucet," said she, _sotto voce_, to Dr. Bellair.

Mr. Peters beamed triumphantly, but in the very hour of his glory
young Burns, hastening to get a cup of coffee for his fair one,
tripped over the concealed pipe, and the fountain poured forth its
contributions among the feet of the guests.

This was a minor misadventure, however, hurting no one's feeling but
Mr. Peters', and Mrs. St. Cloud was so kind to him in consequence that
he was envied by all the others.

Mr. Dykeman was attentive to his guests, old and young, but Mrs.
Pettigrew had not her usual smile for him; Miss Orella declined to
dance, alleging that she was too tired, and Dr. Bellair somewhat dryly
told him that he need not bother with her. He was hardly to be blamed
if he turned repeatedly to Mrs. St. Cloud, whose tactful sweetness was
always ready. She had her swarm of young admirers about her, yet never
failed to find a place for her host, a smile and a word of
understanding.

Her eyes were everywhere. She watched Mr. Skee waltzing with the
youngest, providing well-chosen refreshments for Miss Orella,
gallantly escorting Grandma to see the "Lovers' Lane" they had made at
the end of the garden. Its twin lines of lights were all outside;
within was grateful shadow.

Mrs. St. Cloud paced through this fragrant arbor with each and every one
of the receiving party, uttering ever-fresh expressions of admiration
and gratitude for their kind thoughtfulness, especially to Mr. Dykeman.

When she saw Susie and Mr. Saunders go in at the farther end, she
constituted herself a sort of protective agency to keep every one else
out, holding them in play with various pleasant arts.

And Vivian? When she arrived there was a little gasp from Morton, who
was waiting for her near the door. She was indeed a sight to make a
lover's heart leap. He had then, as it were, surrounded her. Vainly
did the others ask for dances. Morton had unblushingly filled out a
card with his own name and substituted it for the one she handed him.
She protested, but the music sounded and he whirled her away before
she could expostulate to any avail.

His eyes spoke his admiration, and for once his tongue did not spoil
the impression.

Half laughing and half serious, she let him monopolize her, but quite
drove him away when Mr. Dykeman claimed his dance.

"All filled up!" said Morton for her, showing his card.

"Mine was promised yesterday, was it not, Miss Lane?" said the big man,
smiling. And she went with him. He took her about the garden later,
gravely admiring and attentive, and when Susie fairly rushed into her
arms, begging her to come and talk with her, he left them both in a
small rose-crowned summer-house and went back to Mrs. St. Cloud.

"Oh, Vivian, Vivian! What do you think!" Susie's face was buried on
Vivian's shoulder. "I'm engaged!"

Vivian held her close and kissed her soft hair. Her joyous excitement
was contagious.

"He's the nicest man in the world!" breathed Susie, "and he loves me!"

"We all supposed he did. Didn't you know it before?"

"Oh, yes, in a way; but, Vivian--he kissed me!"

"Well, child, have you never in all your little life been kissed
before?"

Susie lifted a rosy, tearful face for a moment.

"Never, never, never!" she said. "I thought I had, but I haven't! Oh,
I am so happy!"

"What's up?" inquired Morton, appearing with a pink lantern in his
hand, in impatient search for his adored one. "Susie--crying?"

"No, I'm _not_," she said, and ran forthwith back to the house, whence
Jimmy was bringing her ice cream.

Vivian started to follow her.

"Oh, no, Vivian; don't go. Wait." He dropped the lantern and took her
hands. The paper cover flared up, showing her flushed cheeks and
starry eyes. He stamped out the flame, and in the sudden darkness
caught her in his arms.

For a moment she allowed him, turning her head away. He kissed her
white shoulder.

"No! No, Morton--don't! You mustn't!"

She tried to withdraw herself, but he held her fast. She could feel
the pounding of his heart.

"Oh, Vivian, don't say no! You will marry me, won't you? Some day,
when I'm more worth while. Say you will! Some day--if not now. I love
you so; I need you so! Say yes, Vivian."

He was breathing heavily. His arms held her motionless. She still kept
her face turned from him.

"Let me go, Morton; let me go! You hurt me!"

"Say yes, dear, and I'll let you go--for a little while."

"Yes," said Vivian.

The ground jarred beside them, as a tall man jumped the hedge
boundary. He stood a moment, staring.

"Well, is this my house, or Coney Island?" they heard him say. And
then Morton swore softly to himself as Vivian left him and came out.

"Good evening, Dr. Hale," she said, a little breathlessly. "We weren't
expecting you so soon."

"I should judge not," he answered. "What's up, anyhow?"

"The boys--and Mr. Dykeman--are giving a garden party for Mrs. St.
Cloud."

"For whom?"

"For Adela St. Cloud. She is visiting us. Aren't you coming in?"

"Not now," he said, and was gone without another word.




CHAPTER IX.

CONSEQUENCES.

      You may h