e--and obey."

"Who was the great Hebrew teacher?"

"Oh--there it was different. The Hebrew religion is an accumulation of
extremely ancient traditions, some far older than their people, and grew
by accretion down the ages. We consider it inspired--'the Word of God.'"

"How do you know it is?"

"Because it says so."

"Does it say so in as many words? Who wrote that in?"

I began to try to recall some text that did say so, and could not bring
it to mind.

"Apart from that," she pursued, "what I cannot understand is why you
keep these early religious ideas so long. You have changed all your
others, haven't you?"

"Pretty generally," I agreed. "But this we call 'revealed religion,'
and think it is final. But tell me more about these little temples of
yours," I urged. "And these Temple Mothers you run to."

Then she gave me an extended lesson in applied religion, which I will
endeavor to concentrate.

They developed their central theory of a Loving Power, and assumed that
its relation to them was motherly--that it desired their welfare and
especially their development. Their relation to it, similarly, was
filial, a loving appreciation and a glad fulfillment of its high
purposes. Then, being nothing if not practical, they set their keen
and active minds to discover the kind of conduct expected of them. This
worked out in a most admirable system of ethics. The principle of Love
was universally recognized--and used.

Patience, gentleness, courtesy, all that we call "good breeding," was
part of their code of conduct. But where they went far beyond us was
in the special application of religious feeling to every field of
life. They had no ritual, no little set of performances called "divine
service," save those religious pageants I have spoken of, and those were
as much educational as religious, and as much social as either. But they
had a clear established connection between everything they did--and
God. Their cleanliness, their health, their exquisite order, the rich
peaceful beauty of the whole land, the happiness of the children, and
above all the constant progress they made--all this was their religion.

They applied their minds to the thought of God, and worked out the
theory that such an inner power demanded outward expression. They lived
as if God was real and at work within them.

As for those little temples everywhere--some of the women were more
skilled, more temperamentally inclined, in this direction, than others.
These, whatever their work might be, gave certain hours to the Temple
Service, which meant being there with all their love and wisdom and
trained thought, to smooth out rough places for anyone who needed it.
Sometimes it was a real grief, very rarely a quarrel, most often a
perplexity; even in Herland the human soul had its hours of darkness.
But all through the country their best and wisest were ready to give
help.

If the difficulty was unusually profound, the applicant was directed to
someone more specially experienced in that line of thought.

Here was a religion which gave to the searching mind a rational basis
in life, the concept of an immense Loving Power working steadily out
through them, toward good. It gave to the "soul" that sense of contact
with the inmost force, of perception of the uttermost purpose, which we
always crave. It gave to the "heart" the blessed feeling of being loved,
loved and UNDERSTOOD. It gave clear, simple, rational directions as
to how we should live--and why. And for ritual it gave first those
triumphant group demonstrations, when with a union of all the arts,
the revivifying combination of great multitudes moved rhythmically with
march and dance, song and music, among their own noblest products
and the open beauty of their groves and hills. Second, it gave these
numerous little centers of wisdom where the least wise could go to the
most wise and be helped.

"It is beautiful!" I cried enthusiastically. "It is the most practical,
comforting, progressive religion I ever heard of. You DO love one
another--you DO bear one another's burdens--you DO realize that a little
child is a type of the kingdom of heaven. You are more Christian than
any people I ever saw. But--how about death? And the life everlasting?
What does your religion teach about eternity?"

"Nothing," said Ellador. "What is eternity?"

What indeed? I tried, for the first time in my life, to get a real hold
on the idea.

"It is--never stopping."

"Never stopping?" She looked puzzled.

"Yes, life, going on forever."

"Oh--we see that, of course. Life does go on forever, all about us."

"But eternal life goes on WITHOUT DYING."

"The same person?"

"Yes, the same person, unending, immortal." I was pleased to think
that I had something to teach from our religion, which theirs had never
promulgated.

"Here?" asked Ellador. "Never to die--here?" I could see her practical
mind heaping up the people, and hurriedly reassured her.

"Oh no, indeed, not here--hereafter. We must die here, of course, but
then we 'enter into eternal life.' The soul lives forever."

"How do you know?" she inquired.

"I won't attempt to prove it to yo