n ought really to own--to spend his declining
years among. Also, and at considerable length he consulted her about
the best possible place of residence.

"I'm getting to be an old man, Mrs. St. Cloud," he remarked
meditatively; "and I'm thinking of buying and building somewhere. But
it's a ticklish job. Lo! these many years I've been perfectly contented
to live wherever I was at; and now that I'm considering a real
Home--blamed if I know where to put it! I'm distracted between A Model
Farm, and A Metropolitan Residence. Which would you recommend, Ma'am?"

The lady's sympathy and interest warmed to Mr. Skee as they cooled to
Mr. Dykeman, not with any blameworthy or noticeable suddenness, but in
soft graduations, steady and continuous. The one wore his new glories
with an air of modest pride; making no boast of affluence; and the
other accepted that which had befallen him without rebellion.

Miss Orella's tender heart was deeply touched. As fast as Mrs. St.
Cloud gave the cold shoulder to her friend, she extended a warm hand;
when they chatted about Mr. Skee's visible success, she spoke bravely
of the beauty of limited means; and when it was time to present her
weekly bills to the boarders, she left none in Mr. Dykeman's room.
This he took for an oversight at first; but when he found the omission
repeated on the following week, he stood by his window smiling
thoughtfully for some time, and then went in search of Miss Orella.

She sat by her shaded lamp, alone, knitting a silk tie which was
promptly hidden as he entered. He stood by the door looking at her in
spite of her urging him to be seated, observing the warm color in her
face, the graceful lines of her figure, the gentle smile that was so
unfailingly attractive. Then he came forward, calmly inquiring, "Why
haven't you sent me my board bill?"

She lifted her eyes to his, and dropped them, flushing. "I--excuse me;
but I thought----"

"You thought I couldn't conveniently pay it?"

"O please excuse me! I didn't mean to be--to do anything you wouldn't
like. But I did hear that you were--temporarily embarrassed. And I
want you to feel sure, Mr. Dykeman, that to your real friends it makes
no difference in the _least_. And if--for a while that is--it should
be a little more convenient to--to defer payment, please feel
perfectly at liberty to wait!"

She stood there blushing like a girl, her sweet eyes wet with shining
tears that did not fall, full of tender sympathy for his misfortune.

"Have you heard that I've lost all my money?" he asked.

She nodded softly.

"And that I can't ever get it back--shall have to do clerk's work at a
clerk's salary--as long as I live?"

Again she nodded.

He took a step or two back and forth in the quiet parlor, and returned
to her.

"Would you marry a poor man?" he asked in a low tender voice. "Would you
marry a man not young, not clever, not rich, but who loved you dearly?
You are the sweetest woman I ever saw, Orella Elder--will you marry me?"

She came to him, and he drew her close with a long sigh of utter
satisfaction. "Now I am rich indeed," he said softly.

She held him off a little. "Don't talk about being rich. It doesn't
matter. If you like to live here--why this house will keep us both. If
you'd rather have a little one--I can live _so_ happily--on _so_
little! And there is my own little home in Bainville--perhaps you
could find something to do there. I don't care the least in the
world--so long as you love me!"

"I've loved you since I first set eyes on you," he answered her. "To
see the home you've made here for all of us was enough to make any man
love you. But I thought awhile back that I hadn't any chance--you
weren't jealous of that Artificial Fairy, were you?"

And conscientiously Miss Orella lied.

Carston society was pleased, but not surprised at Susie's engagement; it
was both pleased and surprised when Miss Elder's was announced. Some
there were who protested that they had seen it from the beginning; but
disputatious friends taxed them with having prophesied quite otherwise.

Some thought Miss Elder foolish to take up with a man of full middle
age, and with no prospects; and others attributed the foolishness to
Mr. Dykeman, in marrying an old maid. Others again darkly hinted that
he knew which side his bread was buttered--"and first-rate butter,
too." Adding that they "did hate to see a man sit around and let his
wife keep boarders!"

In Bainville circles the event created high commotion. That one of their
accumulated maidens, part of the Virgin Sacrifice of New England, which
finds not even a Minotaur--had thus triumphantly escaped from their
ranks and achieved a husband; this was flatly heretical. The fact that
he was a poor man was the only mitigating circumstance, leaving it open
to the more captious to criticize the lady sharply.

But the calm contentment of Andrew Dykeman's face, and the decorous
bliss of Miss Elder's were untroubled by what anyone thought or said.

Little Susie was delighted, and teased for a double wedding; without
success. "One was enough to attend to, at one time," her aunt replied.

       *      