e, as
general housekeeper and nurse.

She was glad then of her strength, and used it royally, comforting the
wretched Jim, keeping up Susie's spirits, and mothering the frail tiny
baby with exquisite devotion.

Day after day the doctor saw her, sweet and strong and patient,
leaving her school to the assistant, regardless of losses, showing the
virtues he admired most in women.

He made his calls as short as possible; but even so, Vivian could not
but note how his sternness gave way to brusque good cheer for the sick
mother, and to a lovely gentleness with the child.

When that siege was over and the girl returned to her own work, she
carried pleasant pictures in her mind, and began to wonder, as had so
many others, why this man, who seemed so fitted to enjoy a family, had
none.

She missed his daily call, and wondered further why he avoided them
more assiduously than at first.




CHAPTER XII.

ACHIEVEMENTS.

      There are some folk born to beauty,
        And some to plenteous gold,
      Some who are proud of being young,
        Some proud of being old.

      Some who are glad of happy love,
        Enduring, deep and true,
      And some who thoroughly enjoy
        The little things they do.


Upon all this Grandma Pettigrew cast an observant eye, and meditated
sagely thereupon. Coming to a decision, she first took a course of
reading in some of Dr. Bellair's big books, and then developed a
series of perplexing symptoms, not of a too poignant or perilous
nature, that took her to Dr. Hale's office frequently.

"You haven't repudiated Dr. Bellair, have you?" he asked her.

"I have never consulted Jane Bellair as a physician," she replied,
"though I esteem her much as a friend."

The old lady's company was always welcome to him; he liked her
penetrating eye, her close-lipped, sharp remarks, and appreciated the
real kindness of her heart.

If he had known how closely she was peering into the locked recesses
of his own, and how much she saw there, he would perhaps have avoided
her as he did Vivian, and if he had known further that this ingenious
old lady, pursuing long genealogical discussions with him, had finally
unearthed a mutual old-time friend, and had forthwith started a
correspondence with that friend, based on this common acquaintance in
Carston, he might have left that city.

The old-time friend, baited by Mrs. Pettigrew's innocent comment on Dr.
Hale's persistence in single blessedness, poured forth what she knew of
the cause with no more embellishment than time is sure to give.

"I know why he won't marry," wrote she. "He had reason good to begin
with, but I never dreamed he'd be obstinate enough to keep it up
sixteen years. When he was a boy in college here I knew him well--he
was a splendid fellow, one of the very finest. But he fell desperately
in love with that beautiful Mrs. James--don't you remember about her?
She married a St. Cloud later, and he left her, I think. She was as
lovely as a cameo--and as hard and flat. That woman was the saintliest
thing that ever breathed. She wouldn't live with her husband because
he had done something wrong; she wouldn't get a divorce, nor let him,
because that was wicked--and she always had a string of boys round
her, and talked about the moral influence she had on them.

"Young Hale worshipped her--simply worshipped her--and she let him.
She let them all. She had that much that was god-like about her--she
loved incense. You need not ask for particulars. She was far too
'particular' for that. But one light-headed chap went and drowned
himself--that was all hushed up, of course, but some of us felt pretty
sure why. He was a half-brother to Dick Hale, and Dick was awfully
fond of him. Then he turned hard and hateful all at once--used to talk
horrid about women. He kept straight enough--that's easy for a
mysogynist, and studying medicine didn't help him any--doctors and
ministers know too much about women. So there you are. But I'm
astonished to hear he's never gotten over it; he always was
obstinate--it's his only fault. They say he swore never to marry--if
he did, that accounts. Do give my regards if you see him again."

Mrs. Pettigrew considered long and deeply over this information, as she
slowly produced a jersey striped with Roman vividness. It was noticeable
in this new life in Carston that Mrs. Pettigrew's knitted jackets had
grown steadily brighter in hue from month to month. Whereas, in
Bainville, purple and brown were the high lights, and black, slate and
navy blue the main colors; now her worsteds were as a painter's palette,
and the result not only cheered, but bade fair to inebriate.

"A pig-headed man," she said to herself, as her needle prodded
steadily in and out; "a pig-headed man, with a pig-headedness of
sixteen years' standing. His hair must 'a turned gray from the strain
of it. And there's Vivian, biddin' fair to be an old maid after all.
What on _earth_!" She appeared to have forgotten that marriages are
made in heaven, or to disregard that saying. "The Lord helps those
that help themselves," was one of her favorite mottoes. "And much more
those tha