nored Mrs. St. Cloud now, who met his rude treatment with
secret, uncomplaining patience.

Vivian spoke of this. "I do not see why he need be so rude, Grandma. He
may hate women, but I don't see why he should treat her so shamefully."

"Well, I do," replied the invalid, "and what's more I'm going to show
you; I've always disliked that woman, and now I know why. I'd turn
her out of the house if it wasn't for Elmer Skee. That man's as good
as gold under all his foolishness, and if he can get any satisfaction
out of that meringue he's welcome. Dr. Hale doesn't hate women, child,
but a woman broke his heart once--and then he made an idiot of himself
by vowing never to marry."

She showed her friend's letter, and Vivian read it with rising color.
"O, Grandma! Why that's worse than I ever thought--even after what Dr.
Bellair told us. And it was his brother! No wonder he's so fond of
boys. He tries to warn them, I suppose."

"Yes, and the worst of it is that he's really got over his grouch; and
he's in love--but tied down by that foolish oath, poor man."

"Is he, Grandma? How do you know? With whom?"

"You dear, blind child!" said the old lady, "with you, of course. Has
been ever since we came."

The girl sat silent, a strange feeling of joy rising in her heart, as
she reviewed the events of the last two years. So that was why he
would not stay that night. And that was why. "No wonder he wouldn't
come here!" she said at length. "It's on account of that woman. But
why did he change?"

"Because she went over there to see him. He wouldn't come to her. I
heard her 'phone to him one evening." The old lady chuckled. "So she
marched herself over there--I saw her, and I guess she got her
needin's. She didn't stay long. And his light burned till morning."

"Do you think he cares for her, still?"

"Cares for her!" The old lady fairly snorted her derision. "He can't
bear the sight of her--treats her as if she wasn't there. No, indeed.
If he did she'd have him fast enough, now. Well! I suppose he'll
repent of that foolishness of his all the days of his life--and stick
it out! Poor man."

Mrs. Pettigrew sighed, and Vivian echoed the sigh. She began to
observe Dr. Hale with new eyes; to study little matters of tone and
manner--and could not deny her grandmother's statement. Nor would she
admit it--yet.

The old lady seemed weaker and more irritable, but positively forbade
any word of this being sent to her family.

"There's nothing on earth ails me," she said. "Dr. Hale says there's
not a thing the matter that he can see--that if I'd only eat more I'd
get stronger. I'll be all right soon, my dear. I'll get my appetite
and get well, I have faith to believe."

She insisted on his coming over in the evening, when not too busy, and
staying till she dropped asleep, and he seemed strangely willing to
humor her; sitting for hours in the quiet parlor, while Vivian played
softly, and sang her low-toned hymns.

So sitting, one still evening, when for some time no fretful "not so
loud" had come from the next room, he turned suddenly to Vivian and
asked, almost roughly--"Do you hold a promise binding?--an oath, a
vow--to oneself?"

She met his eyes, saw the deep pain there, the long combat, the
irrepressible hope and longing.

"Did you swear to keep your oath secret?" she asked.

"Why, no," he said, "I did not. I will tell you. I did not swear never
to tell a woman I loved her. I never dreamed I should love again.
Vivian, I was fool enough to love a shallow, cruel woman, once, and
nearly broke my heart in consequence. That was long years ago. I have
never cared for a woman since--till I met you. And now I must pay
double for that boy folly."

He came to her and took her hand.

"I love you," he said, his tense grip hurting her. "I shall love you as
long as I live--day and night--forever! You shall know that at any
rate!"

She could not raise her eyes. A rich bright color rose to the soft
border of her hair. He caught her face in his hands and made her look
at him; saw those dark, brilliant eyes softened, tear-filled, asking,
and turned sharply away with a muffled cry.

"I have taken a solemn oath," he said in a strained, hard voice,
"never to ask a woman to marry me."

He heard a little gasping laugh, and turned upon her. She stood there
smiling, her hands reached out to him.

"You don't have to," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

A long time later, upon their happy stillness broke a faint voice from
the other room:

"Vivian, I think if you'd bring me some bread and butter--and a cup of
tea--and some cold beef and a piece of pie--I could eat it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon the rapid and complete recovery of her grandmother's health, and
the announcement of Vivian's engagement, Mr. and Mrs. Lane decided to
make a visit to their distant mother and daughter, hoping as well that
Mr. Lane's cough might be better for a visit in that altitude. Mr. and
Mrs. Dykeman also sent word of their immediate return.

Jeanne, using subtle powers of suggestion, caused Mrs. Pettigrew to
decide upon giving a dinner, in honor of these events