."

"Oh, well, of course, if you like a perpetual Sunday school, it's all
very well. But I like Something Doing. Here it's all done."

There was something to this criticism. The years of pioneering lay far
behind them. Theirs was a civilization in which the initial difficulties
had long since been overcome. The untroubled peace, the unmeasured
plenty, the steady health, the large good will and smooth management
which ordered everything, left nothing to overcome. It was like a
pleasant family in an old established, perfectly run country place.

I liked it because of my eager and continued interest in the
sociological achievements involved. Jeff liked it as he would have liked
such a family and such a place anywhere.

Terry did not like it because he found nothing to oppose, to struggle
with, to conquer.

"Life is a struggle, has to be," he insisted. "If there is no struggle,
there is no life--that's all."

"You're talking nonsense--masculine nonsense," the peaceful Jeff
replied. He was certainly a warm defender of Herland. "Ants don't raise
their myriads by a struggle, do they? Or the bees?"

"Oh, if you go back to insects--and want to live in an anthill--! I tell
you the higher grades of life are reached only through struggle--combat.
There's no Drama here. Look at their plays! They make me sick."

He rather had us there. The drama of the country was--to our
taste--rather flat. You see, they lacked the sex motive and, with it,
jealousy. They had no interplay of warring nations, no aristocracy and
its ambitions, no wealth and poverty opposition.

I see I have said little about the economics of the place; it should
have come before, but I'll go on about the drama now.

They had their own kind. There was a most impressive array of pageantry,
of processions, a sort of grand ritual, with their arts and their
religion broadly blended. The very babies joined in it. To see one of
their great annual festivals, with the massed and marching stateliness
of those great mothers, the young women brave and noble, beautiful and
strong; and then the children, taking part as naturally as ours would
frolic round a Christmas tree--it was overpowering in the impression of
joyous, triumphant life.

They had begun at a period when the drama, the dance, music, religion,
and education were all very close together; and instead of developing
them in detached lines, they had kept the connection. Let me try again
to give, if I can, a faint sense of the difference in the life view--the
background and basis on which their culture rested.

Ellador told me a lot about it. She took me to see the children, the
growing girls, the special teachers. She picked out books for me to
read. She always seemed to understand just what I wanted to know, and
how to give it to me.

While Terry and Alima struck sparks and parted--he always madly drawn
to her and she to him--she must have been, or she'd never have stood the
way he behaved--Ellador and I had already a deep, restful feeling, as
if we'd always had one another. Jeff and Celis were happy; there was no
question of that; but it didn't seem to me as if they had the good times
we did.

Well, here is the Herland child facing life--as Ellador tried to show
it to me. From the first memory, they knew Peace, Beauty, Order, Safety,
Love, Wisdom, Justice, Patience, and Plenty. By "plenty" I mean that the
babies grew up in an environment which met their needs, just as young
fawns might grow up in dewy forest glades and brook-fed meadows. And
they enjoyed it as frankly and utterly as the fawns would.

They found themselves in a big bright lovely world, full of the most
interesting and enchanting things to learn about and to do. The people
everywhere were friendly and polite. No Herland child ever met the
overbearing rudeness we so commonly show to children. They were People,
too, from the first; the most precious part of the nation.

In each step of the rich experience of living, they found the instance
they were studying widen out into contact with an endless range of
common interests. The things they learned were RELATED, from the first;
related to one another, and to the national prosperity.

"It was a butterfly that made me a forester," said Ellador. "I was about
eleven years old, and I found a big purple-and-green butterfly on a low
flower. I caught it, very carefully, by the closed wings, as I had been
told to do, and carried it to the nearest insect teacher"--I made a note
there to ask her what on earth an insect teacher was--"to ask her its
name. She took it from me with a little cry of delight. 'Oh, you blessed
child,' she said. 'Do you like obernuts?' Of course I liked obernuts,
and said so. It is our best food-nut, you know. 'This is a female of the
obernut moth,' she told me. 'They are almost gone. We have been trying
to exterminate them for centuries. If you had not caught this one, it
might have laid eggs enough to raise worms enough to destroy thousands
of our nut trees--thousands of bushels of nuts--and make years and years
of trouble for us.'

"Everybody congratulated me. The children all over the country were