as out. The upper part of the hall
was now completely dark.

Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and
derided by vanity; and my eyes burned with anguish and anger.




EVELINE

SHE sat at the window watching the evening invade the avenue. Her head
was leaned against the window curtains and in her nostrils was the odour
of dusty cretonne. She was tired.

Few people passed. The man out of the last house passed on his way
home; she heard his footsteps clacking along the concrete pavement and
afterwards crunching on the cinder path before the new red houses. One
time there used to be a field there in which they used to play every
evening with other people's children. Then a man from Belfast bought
the field and built houses in it--not like their little brown houses but
bright brick houses with shining roofs. The children of the avenue used
to play together in that field--the Devines, the Waters, the Dunns,
little Keogh the cripple, she and her brothers and sisters. Ernest,
however, never played: he was too grown up. Her father used often to
hunt them in out of the field with his blackthorn stick; but usually
little Keogh used to keep nix and call out when he saw her father
coming. Still they seemed to have been rather happy then. Her father was
not so bad then; and besides, her mother was alive. That was a long time
ago; she and her brothers and sisters were all grown up; her mother
was dead. Tizzie Dunn was dead, too, and the Waters had gone back to
England. Everything changes. Now she was going to go away like the
others, to leave her home.

Home! She looked round the room, reviewing all its familiar objects
which she had dusted once a week for so many years, wondering where on
earth all the dust came from. Perhaps she would never see again those
familiar objects from which she had never dreamed of being divided.
And yet during all those years she had never found out the name of the
priest whose yellowing photograph hung on the wall above the broken
harmonium beside the coloured print of the promises made to Blessed
Margaret Mary Alacoque. He had been a school friend of her father.
Whenever he showed the photograph to a visitor her father used to pass
it with a casual word:

"He is in Melbourne now."

She had consented to go away, to leave her home. Was that wise? She
tried to weigh each side of the question. In her home anyway she had
shelter and food; she had those whom she had known all her life about
her. Of course she had to work hard, both in the house and at business.
What would they say of her in the Stores when they found out that she
had run away with a fellow? Say she was a fool, perhaps; and her place
would be filled up by advertisement. Miss Gavan would be glad. She
had always had an edge on her, especially whenever there were people
listening.

"Miss Hill, don't you see these ladies are waiting?"

"Look lively, Miss Hill, please."

She would not cry many tears at leaving the Stores.

But in her new home, in a distant unknown country, it would not be like
that. Then she would be married--she, Eveline. People would treat her
with respect then. She would not be treated as her mother had been. Even
now, though she was over nineteen, she sometimes felt herself in danger
of her father's violence. She knew it was that that had given her the
palpitations. When they were growing up he had never gone for her like
he used to go for Harry and Ernest, because she was a girl; but latterly
he had begun to threaten her and say what he would do to her only for
her dead mother's sake. And now she had nobody to protect her. Ernest was
dead and Harry, who was in the church decorating business, was nearly
always down somewhere in the country. Besides, the invariable squabble
for money on Saturday nights had begun to weary her unspeakably. She
always gave her entire wages--seven shillings--and Harry always sent up
what he could but the trouble was to get any money from her father.
He said she used to squander the money, that she had no head, that
he wasn't going to give her his hard-earned money to throw about the
streets, and much more, for he was usually fairly bad of a Saturday night.
In the end he would give her the money and ask her had she any intention
of buying Sunday's dinner. Then she had to rush out as quickly as she
could and do her marketing, holding her black leather purse tightly in
her hand as she elbowed her way through the crowds and returning home
late under her load of provisions. She had hard work to keep the house
together and to see that the two young children who had been left to her
charge went to school regularly and got their meals regularly. It was
hard work--a hard life--but now that she was about to leave it she did
not find it a wholly undesirable life.

She was about to explore another life with Frank. Frank was very kind,
manly, open-hearted. She was to go away with him by the night-boat to
be his wife and to live with him in Buenos Ayres where he had a home
waiting for her. How well she remembered the first time she had seen
him; he was lodging in a house on the main road wher