ess sticks of arms on the keyboard, nodding with damsel's
grace, his bowknot bobbing)_

ZOE: _(Twirls round herself, heeltapping)_ Dance. Anybody here for
there? Who'll dance? Clear the table.

_(The pianola with changing lights plays in waltz time the prelude of_
My Girl's a Yorkshire Girl. _Stephen throws his ashplant on the table
and seizes Zoe round the waist. Florry and Bella push the table towards
the fireplace. Stephen, arming Zoe with exaggerated grace, begins to
waltz her round the room. Bloom stands aside. Her sleeve filling from
gracing arms reveals a white fleshflower of vaccination. Between the
curtains Professor Maginni inserts a leg on the toepoint of which spins
a silk hat. With a deft kick he sends it spinning to his crown and
jauntyhatted skates in. He wears a slate frockcoat with claret silk
lapels, a gorget of cream tulle, a green lowcut waistcoat, stock collar
with white kerchief, tight lavender trousers, patent pumps and canary
gloves. In his buttonhole is an immense dahlia. He twirls in reversed
directions a clouded cane, then wedges it tight in his oxter. He places
a hand lightly on his breastbone, bows, and fondles his flower and
buttons.)_

MAGINNI: The poetry of motion, art of calisthenics. No connection
with Madam Legget Byrne's or Levenston's. Fancy dress balls arranged.
Deportment. The Katty Lanner step. So. Watch me! My terpsichorean
abilities. _(He minuets forward three paces on tripping bee's feet) Tout
le monde en avant! Révérence! Tout le monde en place!_

_(The prelude ceases. Professor Goodwin, beating vague arms shrivels,
sinks, his live cape filling about the stool. The air in firmer waltz
time sounds. Stephen and Zoe circle freely. The lights change, glow,
fide gold rosy violet.)_

THE PIANOLA:

Two young fellows were talking about their girls, girls, girls,
Sweethearts they'd left behind...

_(From a corner the morning hours run out, goldhaired, slimsandalled,
in girlish blue, waspwaisted, with innocent hands. Nimbly they dance,
twirling their skipping ropes. The hours of noon follow in amber gold.
Laughing, linked, high haircombs flashing, they catch the sun in mocking
mirrors, lifting their arms.)_

MAGINNI: _(Clipclaps glovesilent hands) Carré! Avant deux!_ Breathe
evenly! _Balance!_

_(The morning and noon hours waltz in their places, turning, advancing
to each other, shaping their curves, bowing visavis. Cavaliers behind
them arch and suspend their arms, with hands descending to, touching,
rising from their shoulders.)_

HOURS: You may touch my.

CAVALIERS: May I touch your?

HOURS: O, but lightly!

CAVALIERS: O, so lightly!

THE PIANOLA:

My little shy little lass has a waist.

_(Zoe and Stephen turn boldly with looser swing. The twilight hours
advance from long landshadows, dispersed, lagging, languideyed, their
cheeks delicate with cipria and false faint bloom. They are in grey
gauze with dark bat sleeves that flutter in the land breeze.)_

MAGINNI: _Avant huit! Traversé! Salut! Cours de mains! Croisé!_

_(The night hours, one by one, steal to the last place. Morning, noon
and twilight hours retreat before them. They are masked, with daggered
hair and bracelets of dull bells. Weary they curchycurchy under veils.)_

THE BRACELETS: Heigho! Heigho!

ZOE: _(Twirling, her hand to her brow)_ O!

MAGINNI: _Les tiroirs! Chaîne de dames! La corbeille! Dos à dos!_

_(Arabesquing wearily they weave a pattern on the floor, weaving,
unweaving, curtseying, twirling, simply swirling.)_

ZOE: I'm giddy!

_(She frees herself, droops on a chair. Stephen seizes Florry and turns
with her.)_

MAGINNI: Boulangère! Les ronds! Les ponts! Chevaux de bois! Escargots!

_(Twining, receding, with interchanging hands the night hours link each
each with arching arms in a mosaic of movements. Stephen and Florry turn
cumbrously.)_

MAGINNI: _Dansez avec vos dames! Changez de dames! Donnez le petit
bouquet à votre dame! Remerciez!_

THE PIANOLA:

     Best, best of all,
     Baraabum!

KITTY: (JUMPS UP) O, they played that on the hobbyhorses at the Mirus
bazaar!

_(She runs to Stephen. He leaves florry brusquely and seizes Kitty.
A screaming bittern's harsh high whistle shrieks. Groangrousegurgling
Toft's cumbersome whirligig turns slowly the room right roundabout the
room.)_

THE PIANOLA:

     My girl's a Yorkshire girl.

ZOE:

Yorkshire through and through.

Come on all!

_(She seizes Florry and waltzes her.)_

STEPHEN: _Pas seul!_

_(He wheels Kitty into Lynch's arms, snatches up his ashplant from
the table and takes the floor. All wheel whirl waltz twirl. Bloombella
Kittylynch Florryzoe jujuby women. Stephen with hat ashplant frogsplits
in middle highkicks with skykicking mouth shut hand clasp part under
thigh. With clang tinkle boomhammer tallyho hornblower blue green yellow
flashes Toft's cumbersome turns with hobbyhorse riders from gilded
snakes dangled, bowels fandango leaping spurn soil foot and fall
again.)_

THE PIANOLA:

     Though she's a factory lass
     And wears no fancy clothes.

_(Closeclutched swift swifter with glareblareflare scudding they
scootlootshoot lumbering by. Baraabum!)_

TUTTI