d every fallingoff in the calibre of
the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied, would soon be generally adopted
and all the graces of life, genuinely good music, agreeable literature,
light philosophy, instructive pictures, plastercast reproductions of
the classical statues such as Venus and Apollo, artistic coloured
photographs of prize babies, all these little attentions would enable
ladies who were in a particular condition to pass the intervening months
in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers (Disc. Bacc.) attributes
some of these demises to abdominal trauma in the case of women workers
subjected to heavy labours in the workshop and to marital discipline in
the home but by far the vast majority to neglect, private or official,
culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the practice of criminal
abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide. Although the former
(we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too true the case he
cites of nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the peritoneal cavity
is too rare to be normative. In fact when one comes to look into it the
wonder is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off so well as they
do, all things considered and in spite of our human shortcomings which
often baulk nature in her intentions. An ingenious suggestion is
that thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both natality and
mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution, tidal movements,
lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general, everything, in
fine, in nature's vast workshop from the extinction of some remote sun
to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which beautify our
public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet unascertained.
Still the plain straightforward question why a child of normally healthy
parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly looked after succumbs
unaccountably in early childhood (though other children of the same
marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet's words, give us pause.
Nature, we may rest assured, has her own good and cogent reasons for
whatever she does and in all probability such deaths are due to some law
of anticipation by which organisms in which morbous germs have taken
up their residence (modern science has conclusively shown that only the
plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend to disappear at an
increasingly earlier stage of development, an arrangement which, though
productive of pain to some of our feelings (notably the maternal), is
nevertheless, some of us think, in the long run beneficial to the
race in general in securing thereby the survival of the fittest. Mr S.
Dedalus' (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an interruption?)
that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute, digest and
apparently pass through the ordinary channel with pluterperfect
imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous females
emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not to speak
of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly find gastric
relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals as nought
else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above alluded to.
For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately acquainted with
the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this morbidminded esthete and
embryo philosopher who for all his overweening bumptiousness in things
scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from an alkali prides
himself on being, it should perhaps be stated that staggering bob in
the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed victuallers signifies the
cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly dropped from its mother. In
a recent public controversy with Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) which took
place in the commons' hall of the National Maternity Hospital, 29, 30
and 31 Holles street, of which, as is well known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in
Midw., F. K. Q. C. P. I.) is the able and popular master, he is reported
by eyewitnesses as having stated that once a woman has let the cat
into the bag (an esthete's allusion, presumably, to one of the most
complicated and marvellous of all nature's processes--the act of sexual
congress) she must let it out again or give it life, as he phrased it,
to save her own. At the risk of her own, was the telling rejoinder of
his interlocutor, none the less effective for the moderate and measured
tone in which it was delivered.

Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a
happy _accouchement._ It had been a weary weary while both for patient
and doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave
woman had manfully helped. She had. She had fought the good fight and
now she was very very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone
before, are happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching
scene. Reverently look at her as she reclines there with the motherlight
in her eyes, that longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is
to see), in the first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing a silent
prayer of thanksgiving to One above, the Universal Husband. And