 more, he stood up
suddenly and hurried across the room to Aunt Julia whose hand he seized
and held in both his hands, shaking it when words failed him or the
catch in his voice proved too much for him.

"I was just telling my mother," he said, "I never heard you sing so
well, never. No, I never heard your voice so good as it is tonight. Now!
Would you believe that now? That's the truth. Upon my word and honour
that's the truth. I never heard your voice sound so fresh and so... so
clear and fresh, never."

Aunt Julia smiled broadly and murmured something about compliments as
she released her hand from his grasp. Mr. Browne extended his open
hand towards her and said to those who were near him in the manner of a
showman introducing a prodigy to an audience:

"Miss Julia Morkan, my latest discovery!"

He was laughing very heartily at this himself when Freddy Malins turned
to him and said:

"Well, Browne, if you're serious you might make a worse discovery. All
I can say is I never heard her sing half so well as long as I am coming
here. And that's the honest truth."

"Neither did I," said Mr. Browne. "I think her voice has greatly
improved."

Aunt Julia shrugged her shoulders and said with meek pride:

"Thirty years ago I hadn't a bad voice as voices go."

"I often told Julia," said Aunt Kate emphatically, "that she was simply
thrown away in that choir. But she never would be said by me."

She turned as if to appeal to the good sense of the others against a
refractory child while Aunt Julia gazed in front of her, a vague smile
of reminiscence playing on her face.

"No," continued Aunt Kate, "she wouldn't be said or led by anyone,
slaving there in that choir night and day, night and day. Six o'clock on
Christmas morning! And all for what?"

"Well, isn't it for the honour of God, Aunt Kate?" asked Mary Jane,
twisting round on the piano-stool and smiling.

Aunt Kate turned fiercely on her niece and said:

"I know all about the honour of God, Mary Jane, but I think it's not at
all honourable for the pope to turn out the women out of the choirs that
have slaved there all their lives and put little whipper-snappers of
boys over their heads. I suppose it is for the good of the Church if the
pope does it. But it's not just, Mary Jane, and it's not right."

She had worked herself into a passion and would have continued in
defence of her sister for it was a sore subject with her but Mary Jane,
seeing that all the dancers had come back, intervened pacifically:

"Now, Aunt Kate, you're giving scandal to Mr. Browne who is of the other
persuasion."

Aunt Kate turned to Mr. Browne, who was grinning at this allusion to his
religion, and said hastily:

"O, I don't question the pope's being right. I'm only a stupid old woman
and I wouldn't presume to do such a thing. But there's such a thing as
common everyday politeness and gratitude. And if I were in Julia's place
I'd tell that Father Healey straight up to his face..."

"And besides, Aunt Kate," said Mary Jane, "we really are all hungry and
when we are hungry we are all very quarrelsome."

"And when we are thirsty we are also quarrelsome," added Mr. Browne.

"So that we had better go to supper," said Mary Jane, "and finish the
discussion afterwards."

On the landing outside the drawing-room Gabriel found his wife and Mary
Jane trying to persuade Miss Ivors to stay for supper. But Miss Ivors,
who had put on her hat and was buttoning her cloak, would not stay.
She did not feel in the least hungry and she had already overstayed her
time.

"But only for ten minutes, Molly," said Mrs. Conroy. "That won't delay
you."

"To take a pick itself," said Mary Jane, "after all your dancing."

"I really couldn't," said Miss Ivors.

"I am afraid you didn't enjoy yourself at all," said Mary Jane
hopelessly.

"Ever so much, I assure you," said Miss Ivors, "but you really must let
me run off now."

"But how can you get home?" asked Mrs. Conroy.

"O, it's only two steps up the quay."

Gabriel hesitated a moment and said:

"If you will allow me, Miss Ivors, I'll see you home if you are really
obliged to go."

But Miss Ivors broke away from them.

"I won't hear of it," she cried. "For goodness' sake go in to your
suppers and don't mind me. I'm quite well able to take care of myself."

"Well, you're the comical girl, Molly," said Mrs. Conroy frankly.

"Beannacht libh," cried Miss Ivors, with a laugh, as she ran down the
staircase.

Mary Jane gazed after her, a moody puzzled expression on her face,
while Mrs. Conroy leaned over the banisters to listen for the hall-door.
Gabriel asked himself was he the cause of her abrupt departure. But she
did not seem to be in ill humour: she had gone away laughing. He stared
blankly down the staircase.

At the moment Aunt Kate came toddling out of the supper-room, almost
wringing her hands in despair.

"Where is Gabriel?" she cried. "Where on earth is Gabriel? There's
everyone waiting in there, stage to let, and nobody to carve the goose!"

"Here I am, Aunt Kate!" cried Gabriel, with sudden animation, "ready to
carve a flock of geese, if necessary."

A fat brown goose lay at one e