ere."

"Out from the mansion of his forefathers," continued Gabriel, "he drove
with Johnny. And everything went on beautifully until Johnny came in
sight of King Billy's statue: and whether he fell in love with the horse
King Billy sits on or whether he thought he was back again in the mill,
anyhow he began to walk round the statue."

Gabriel paced in a circle round the hall in his goloshes amid the
laughter of the others.

"Round and round he went," said Gabriel, "and the old gentleman, who was
a very pompous old gentleman, was highly indignant. 'Go on, sir! What
do you mean, sir? Johnny! Johnny! Most extraordinary conduct! Can't
understand the horse!'"

The peal of laughter which followed Gabriel's imitation of the incident
was interrupted by a resounding knock at the hall door. Mary Jane ran to
open it and let in Freddy Malins. Freddy Malins, with his hat well back
on his head and his shoulders humped with cold, was puffing and steaming
after his exertions.

"I could only get one cab," he said.

"O, we'll find another along the quay," said Gabriel.

"Yes," said Aunt Kate. "Better not keep Mrs. Malins standing in the
draught."

Mrs. Malins was helped down the front steps by her son and Mr. Browne
and, after many manoeuvres, hoisted into the cab. Freddy Malins
clambered in after her and spent a long time settling her on the seat,
Mr. Browne helping him with advice. At last she was settled comfortably
and Freddy Malins invited Mr. Browne into the cab. There was a good
deal of confused talk, and then Mr. Browne got into the cab. The cabman
settled his rug over his knees, and bent down for the address. The
confusion grew greater and the cabman was directed differently by Freddy
Malins and Mr. Browne, each of whom had his head out through a window of
the cab. The difficulty was to know where to drop Mr. Browne along the
route, and Aunt Kate, Aunt Julia and Mary Jane helped the discussion
from the doorstep with cross-directions and contradictions and abundance
of laughter. As for Freddy Malins he was speechless with laughter.
He popped his head in and out of the window every moment to the
great danger of his hat, and told his mother how the discussion was
progressing, till at last Mr. Browne shouted to the bewildered cabman
above the din of everybody's laughter:

"Do you know Trinity College?"

"Yes, sir," said the cabman.

"Well, drive bang up against Trinity College gates," said Mr. Browne,
"and then we'll tell you where to go. You understand now?"

"Yes, sir," said the cabman.

"Make like a bird for Trinity College."

"Right, sir," said the cabman.

The horse was whipped up and the cab rattled off along the quay amid a
chorus of laughter and adieus.

Gabriel had not gone to the door with the others. He was in a dark part
of the hall gazing up the staircase. A woman was standing near the top
of the first flight, in the shadow also. He could not see her face but
he could see the terra-cotta and salmon-pink panels of her skirt which
the shadow made appear black and white. It was his wife. She was leaning
on the banisters, listening to something. Gabriel was surprised at her
stillness and strained his ear to listen also. But he could hear little
save the noise of laughter and dispute on the front steps, a few chords
struck on the piano and a few notes of a man's voice singing.

He stood still in the gloom of the hall, trying to catch the air that
the voice was singing and gazing up at his wife. There was grace and
mystery in her attitude as if she were a symbol of something. He asked
himself what is a woman standing on the stairs in the shadow, listening
to distant music, a symbol of. If he were a painter he would paint her
in that attitude. Her blue felt hat would show off the bronze of her
hair against the darkness and the dark panels of her skirt would show
off the light ones. Distant Music he would call the picture if he were a
painter.

The hall-door was closed; and Aunt Kate, Aunt Julia and Mary Jane came
down the hall, still laughing.

"Well, isn't Freddy terrible?" said Mary Jane. "He's really terrible."

Gabriel said nothing but pointed up the stairs towards where his wife
was standing. Now that the hall-door was closed the voice and the piano
could be heard more clearly. Gabriel held up his hand for them to be
silent. The song seemed to be in the old Irish tonality and the singer
seemed uncertain both of his words and of his voice. The voice,
made plaintive by distance and by the singer's hoarseness, faintly
illuminated the cadence of the air with words expressing grief:

    O, the rain falls on my heavy locks
    And the dew wets my skin,
    My babe lies cold...

"O," exclaimed Mary Jane. "It's Bartell D'Arcy singing and he wouldn't
sing all the night. O, I'll get him to sing a song before he goes."

"O, do, Mary Jane," said Aunt Kate.

Mary Jane brushed past the others and ran to the staircase, but before
she reached it the singing stopped and the piano was closed abruptly.

"O, what a pity!" she cried. "Is he coming down, Gretta?"

Gabriel heard his wife answer yes and saw her come down towards them. A
few steps be