lgarians and idealising his
own clownish lusts, the pitiable fatuous fellow he had caught a glimpse
of in the mirror. Instinctively he turned his back more to the light
lest she might see the shame that burned upon his forehead.

He tried to keep up his tone of cold interrogation, but his voice when
he spoke was humble and indifferent.

"I suppose you were in love with this Michael Furey, Gretta," he said.

"I was great with him at that time," she said.

Her voice was veiled and sad. Gabriel, feeling now how vain it would be
to try to lead her whither he had purposed, caressed one of her hands
and said, also sadly:

"And what did he die of so young, Gretta? Consumption, was it?"

"I think he died for me," she answered.

A vague terror seized Gabriel at this answer, as if, at that hour when
he had hoped to triumph, some impalpable and vindictive being was coming
against him, gathering forces against him in its vague world. But he
shook himself free of it with an effort of reason and continued to
caress her hand. He did not question her again, for he felt that she
would tell him of herself. Her hand was warm and moist: it did not
respond to his touch, but he continued to caress it just as he had
caressed her first letter to him that spring morning.

"It was in the winter," she said, "about the beginning of the winter
when I was going to leave my grandmother's and come up here to the
convent. And he was ill at the time in his lodgings in Galway and
wouldn't be let out, and his people in Oughterard were written to.
He was in decline, they said, or something like that. I never knew
rightly."

She paused for a moment and sighed.

"Poor fellow," she said. "He was very fond of me and he was such a
gentle boy. We used to go out together, walking, you know, Gabriel, like
the way they do in the country. He was going to study singing only for
his health. He had a very good voice, poor Michael Furey."

"Well; and then?" asked Gabriel.

"And then when it came to the time for me to leave Galway and come up to
the convent he was much worse and I wouldn't be let see him so I wrote
him a letter saying I was going up to Dublin and would be back in the
summer, and hoping he would be better then."

She paused for a moment to get her voice under control, and then went
on:

"Then the night before I left, I was in my grandmother's house in Nuns'
Island, packing up, and I heard gravel thrown up against the window.
The window was so wet I couldn't see, so I ran downstairs as I was and
slipped out the back into the garden and there was the poor fellow at
the end of the garden, shivering."

"And did you not tell him to go back?" asked Gabriel.

"I implored of him to go home at once and told him he would get his
death in the rain. But he said he did not want to live. I can see his
eyes as well as well! He was standing at the end of the wall where there
was a tree."

"And did he go home?" asked Gabriel.

"Yes, he went home. And when I was only a week in the convent he died
and he was buried in Oughterard, where his people came from. O, the day
I heard that, that he was dead!"

She stopped, choking with sobs, and, overcome by emotion, flung herself
face downward on the bed, sobbing in the quilt. Gabriel held her hand
for a moment longer, irresolutely, and then, shy of intruding on her
grief, let it fall gently and walked quietly to the window.


She was fast asleep.

Gabriel, leaning on his elbow, looked for a few moments unresentfully
on her tangled hair and half-open mouth, listening to her deep-drawn
breath. So she had had that romance in her life: a man had died for her
sake. It hardly pained him now to think how poor a part he, her husband,
had played in her life. He watched her while she slept, as though he and
she had never lived together as man and wife. His curious eyes rested
long upon her face and on her hair: and, as he thought of what she must
have been then, in that time of her first girlish beauty, a strange,
friendly pity for her entered his soul. He did not like to say even to
himself that her face was no longer beautiful, but he knew that it was
no longer the face for which Michael Furey had braved death.

Perhaps she had not told him all the story. His eyes moved to the
chair over which she had thrown some of her clothes. A petticoat string
dangled to the floor. One boot stood upright, its limp upper fallen
down: the fellow of it lay upon its side. He wondered at his riot of
emotions of an hour before. From what had it proceeded? From his aunt's
supper, from his own foolish speech, from the wine and dancing, the
merry-making when saying good-night in the hall, the pleasure of the
walk along the river in the snow. Poor Aunt Julia! She, too, would soon
be a shade with the shade of Patrick Morkan and his horse. He had
caught that haggard look upon her face for a moment when she was singing
Arrayed for the Bridal. Soon, perhaps, he would be sitting in that same
drawing-room, dressed in black, his silk hat on his knees. The blinds
would be drawn down and Aunt Kate would be sitting beside him, crying
and blowing her nose and telling him how J