uffle his friend's temper, to
be sent to the devil and told that his advice was not wanted. A little
tact was necessary. But Corley's brow was soon smooth again. His
thoughts were running another way.

"She's a fine decent tart," he said, with appreciation; "that's what she
is."

They walked along Nassau Street and then turned into Kildare Street. Not
far from the porch of the club a harpist stood in the roadway, playing
to a little ring of listeners. He plucked at the wires heedlessly,
glancing quickly from time to time at the face of each new-comer and
from time to time, wearily also, at the sky. His harp, too, heedless
that her coverings had fallen about her knees, seemed weary alike of the
eyes of strangers and of her master's hands. One hand played in the
bass the melody of Silent, O Moyle, while the other hand careered in the
treble after each group of notes. The notes of the air sounded deep and
full.

The two young men walked up the street without speaking, the mournful
music following them. When they reached Stephen's Green they crossed the
road. Here the noise of trams, the lights and the crowd released them
from their silence.

"There she is!" said Corley.

At the corner of Hume Street a young woman was standing. She wore a blue
dress and a white sailor hat. She stood on the curbstone, swinging a
sunshade in one hand. Lenehan grew lively.

"Let's have a look at her, Corley," he said.

Corley glanced sideways at his friend and an unpleasant grin appeared on
his face.

"Are you trying to get inside me?" he asked.

"Damn it!" said Lenehan boldly, "I don't want an introduction. All I
want is to have a look at her. I'm not going to eat her."

"O... A look at her?" said Corley, more amiably. "Well... I'll tell you
what. I'll go over and talk to her and you can pass by."

"Right!" said Lenehan.

Corley had already thrown one leg over the chains when Lenehan called
out:

"And after? Where will we meet?"

"Half ten," answered Corley, bringing over his other leg.

"Where?"

"Corner of Merrion Street. We'll be coming back."

"Work it all right now," said Lenehan in farewell.

Corley did not answer. He sauntered across the road swaying his head
from side to side. His bulk, his easy pace, and the solid sound of his
boots had something of the conqueror in them. He approached the young
woman and, without saluting, began at once to converse with her. She
swung her umbrella more quickly and executed half turns on her heels.
Once or twice when he spoke to her at close quarters she laughed and
bent her head.

Lenehan observed them for a few minutes. Then he walked rapidly along
beside the chains at some distance and crossed the road obliquely. As he
approached Hume Street corner he found the air heavily scented and his
eyes made a swift anxious scrutiny of the young woman's appearance. She
had her Sunday finery on. Her blue serge skirt was held at the waist by
a belt of black leather. The great silver buckle of her belt seemed to
depress the centre of her body, catching the light stuff of her white
blouse like a clip. She wore a short black jacket with mother-of-pearl
buttons and a ragged black boa. The ends of her tulle collarette had
been carefully disordered and a big bunch of red flowers was pinned
in her bosomm stems upwards. Lenehan's eyes noted approvingly her stout
short muscular body. Frank rude health glowed in her face, on her fat red
cheeks and in her unabashed blue eyes. Her features were blunt. She had
broad nostrils, a straggling mouth which lay open in a contented leer,
and two projecting front teeth. As he passed Lenehan took off his cap
and, after about ten seconds, Corley returned a salute to the air. This
he did by raising his hand vaguely and pensively changing the angle of
position of his hat.

Lenehan walked as far as the Shelbourne Hotel where he halted and
waited. After waiting for a little time he saw them coming towards him
and, when they turned to the right, he followed them, stepping lightly
in his white shoes, down one side of Merrion Square. As he walked on
slowly, timing his pace to theirs, he watched Corley's head which turned
at every moment towards the young woman's face like a big ball revolving
on a pivot. He kept the pair in view until he had seen them climbing the
stairs of the Donnybrook tram; then he turned about and went back the
way he had come.

Now that he was alone his face looked older. His gaiety seemed to
forsake him and, as he came by the railings of the Duke's Lawn, he
allowed his hand to run along them. The air which the harpist had played
began to control his movements. His softly padded feet played the melody
while his fingers swept a scale of variations idly along the railings
after each group of notes.

He walked listlessly round Stephen's Green and then down Grafton Street.
Though his eyes took note of many elements of the crowd through which
he passed they did so morosely. He found trivial all that was meant to
charm him and did not answer the glances which invited him to be bold.
He knew that he would have to speak a great deal, to invent and to amuse,
and his brain and thro