 was a time for all things. Perhaps he ought not
to have answered her like that. But she had no right to call him a West
Briton before people, even in joke. She had tried to make him ridiculous
before people, heckling him and staring at him with her rabbit's eyes.

He saw his wife making her way towards him through the waltzing couples.
When she reached him she said into his ear:

"Gabriel, Aunt Kate wants to know won't you carve the goose as usual.
Miss Daly will carve the ham and I'll do the pudding."

"All right," said Gabriel.

"She's sending in the younger ones first as soon as this waltz is over
so that we'll have the table to ourselves."

"Were you dancing?" asked Gabriel.

"Of course I was. Didn't you see me? What row had you with Molly Ivors?"

"No row. Why? Did she say so?"

"Something like that. I'm trying to get that Mr. D'Arcy to sing. He's
full of conceit, I think."

"There was no row," said Gabriel moodily, "only she wanted me to go for
a trip to the west of Ireland and I said I wouldn't."

His wife clasped her hands excitedly and gave a little jump.

"O, do go, Gabriel," she cried. "I'd love to see Galway again."

"You can go if you like," said Gabriel coldly.

She looked at him for a moment, then turned to Mrs. Malins and said:

"There's a nice husband for you, Mrs. Malins."

While she was threading her way back across the room Mrs. Malins,
without adverting to the interruption, went on to tell Gabriel what
beautiful places there were in Scotland and beautiful scenery. Her
son-in-law brought them every year to the lakes and they used to go
fishing. Her son-in-law was a splendid fisher. One day he caught a
beautiful big fish and the man in the hotel cooked it for their dinner.

Gabriel hardly heard what she said. Now that supper was coming near he
began to think again about his speech and about the quotation. When he
saw Freddy Malins coming across the room to visit his mother Gabriel
left the chair free for him and retired into the embrasure of the
window. The room had already cleared and from the back room came the
clatter of plates and knives. Those who still remained in the
drawing-room seemed tired of dancing and were conversing quietly in little
groups. Gabriel's warm trembling fingers tapped the cold pane of the
window. How cool it must be outside! How pleasant it would be to walk
out alone, first along by the river and then through the park! The snow
would be lying on the branches of the trees and forming a bright cap on
the top of the Wellington Monument. How much more pleasant it would be
there than at the supper-table!

He ran over the headings of his speech: Irish hospitality, sad memories,
the Three Graces, Paris, the quotation from Browning. He repeated to
himself a phrase he had written in his review: "One feels that one is
listening to a thought-tormented music." Miss Ivors had praised the
review. Was she sincere? Had she really any life of her own behind all
her propagandism? There had never been any ill-feeling between them
until that night. It unnerved him to think that she would be at the
supper-table, looking up at him while he spoke with her critical
quizzing eyes. Perhaps she would not be sorry to see him fail in his
speech. An idea came into his mind and gave him courage. He would
say, alluding to Aunt Kate and Aunt Julia: "Ladies and Gentlemen, the
generation which is now on the wane among us may have had its faults but
for my part I think it had certain qualities of hospitality, of humour,
of humanity, which the new and very serious and hypereducated generation
that is growing up around us seems to me to lack." Very good: that
was one for Miss Ivors. What did he care that his aunts were only two
ignorant old women?

A murmur in the room attracted his attention. Mr. Browne was advancing
from the door, gallantly escorting Aunt Julia, who leaned upon his arm,
smiling and hanging her head. An irregular musketry of applause escorted
her also as far as the piano and then, as Mary Jane seated herself on
the stool, and Aunt Julia, no longer smiling, half turned so as to pitch
her voice fairly into the room, gradually ceased. Gabriel recognised
the prelude. It was that of an old song of Aunt Julia's--Arrayed for the
Bridal. Her voice, strong and clear in tone, attacked with great spirit
the runs which embellish the air and though she sang very rapidly she
did not miss even the smallest of the grace notes. To follow the
voice, without looking at the singer's face, was to feel and share the
excitement of swift and secure flight. Gabriel applauded loudly with all
the others at the close of the song and loud applause was borne in from
the invisible supper-table. It sounded so genuine that a little
colour struggled into Aunt Julia's face as she bent to replace in the
music-stand the old leather-bound songbook that had her initials on the
cover. Freddy Malins, who had listened with his head perched sideways to
hear her better, was still applauding when everyone else had ceased and
talking animatedly to his mother who nodded her head gravely and slowly
in acquiescence. At last, when he could clap no