propriateness in his accident and, but that she did
not wish to seem bloody-minded, would have told the gentlemen that
Mr. Kernan's tongue would not suffer by being shortened. However, Mr.
Cunningham was a capable man; and religion was religion. The scheme
might do good and, at least, it could do no harm. Her beliefs were
not extravagant. She believed steadily in the Sacred Heart as the
most generally useful of all Catholic devotions and approved of the
sacraments. Her faith was bounded by her kitchen, but, if she was put to
it, she could believe also in the banshee and in the Holy Ghost.

The gentlemen began to talk of the accident. Mr. Cunningham said that he
had once known a similar case. A man of seventy had bitten off a piece
of his tongue during an epileptic fit and the tongue had filled in
again, so that no one could see a trace of the bite.

"Well, I'm not seventy," said the invalid.

"God forbid," said Mr. Cunningham.

"It doesn't pain you now?" asked Mr. M'Coy.

Mr. M'Coy had been at one time a tenor of some reputation. His wife, who
had been a soprano, still taught young children to play the piano at low
terms. His line of life had not been the shortest distance between two
points and for short periods he had been driven to live by his wits. He
had been a clerk in the Midland Railway, a canvasser for advertisements
for The Irish Times and for The Freeman's Journal, a town traveller
for a coal firm on commission, a private inquiry agent, a clerk in the
office of the Sub-Sheriff, and he had recently become secretary to the
City Coroner. His new office made him professionally interested in Mr.
Kernan's case.

"Pain? Not much," answered Mr. Kernan. "But it's so sickening. I feel as
if I wanted to retch off."

"That's the boose," said Mr. Cunningham firmly.

"No," said Mr. Kernan. "I think I caught a cold on the car. There's
something keeps coming into my throat, phlegm or----"

"Mucus." said Mr. M'Coy.

"It keeps coming like from down in my throat; sickening."

"Yes, yes," said Mr. M'Coy, "that's the thorax."

He looked at Mr. Cunningham and Mr. Power at the same time with an air
of challenge. Mr. Cunningham nodded his head rapidly and Mr. Power said:

"Ah, well, all's well that ends well."

"I'm very much obliged to you, old man," said the invalid.

Mr. Power waved his hand.

"Those other two fellows I was with----"

"Who were you with?" asked Mr. Cunningham.

"A chap. I don't know his name. Damn it now, what's his name? Little
chap with sandy hair...."

"And who else?"

"Harford."

"Hm," said Mr. Cunningham.

When Mr. Cunningham made that remark, people were silent. It was known
that the speaker had secret sources of information. In this case the
monosyllable had a moral intention. Mr. Harford sometimes formed one
of a little detachment which left the city shortly after noon on Sunday
with the purpose of arriving as soon as possible at some public-house on
the outskirts of the city where its members duly qualified themselves as
bona fide travellers. But his fellow-travellers had never consented
to overlook his origin. He had begun life as an obscure financier by
lending small sums of money to workmen at usurious interest. Later on he
had become the partner of a very fat, short gentleman, Mr. Goldberg, in
the Liffey Loan Bank. Though he had never embraced more than the Jewish
ethical code, his fellow-Catholics, whenever they had smarted in person
or by proxy under his exactions, spoke of him bitterly as an Irish Jew
and an illiterate, and saw divine disapproval of usury made manifest
through the person of his idiot son. At other times they remembered his
good points.

"I wonder where did he go to," said Mr. Kernan.

He wished the details of the incident to remain vague. He wished his
friends to think there had been some mistake, that Mr. Harford and he
had missed each other. His friends, who knew quite well Mr. Harford's
manners in drinking were silent. Mr. Power said again:

"All's well that ends well."

Mr. Kernan changed the subject at once.

"That was a decent young chap, that medical fellow," he said. "Only for
him----"

"O, only for him," said Mr. Power, "it might have been a case of seven
days, without the option of a fine."

"Yes, yes," said Mr. Kernan, trying to remember. "I remember now there
was a policeman. Decent young fellow, he seemed. How did it happen at
all?"

"It happened that you were peloothered, Tom," said Mr. Cunningham
gravely.

"True bill," said Mr. Kernan, equally gravely.

"I suppose you squared the constable, Jack," said Mr. M'Coy.

Mr. Power did not relish the use of his Christian name. He was not
straight-laced, but he could not forget that Mr. M'Coy had recently made
a crusade in search of valises and portmanteaus to enable Mrs. M'Coy to
fulfil imaginary engagements in the country. More than he resented the
fact that he had been victimised he resented such low playing of the
game. He answered the question, therefore, as if Mr. Kernan had asked
it.

The narrative made Mr. Kernan indignant. He was keenly conscious of his
citizenship, wished to live with his city on terms mutually honourab