at were too dry for such a task. The problem of
how he could pass the hours till he met Corley again troubled him a
little. He could think of no way of passing them but to keep on walking.
He turned to the left when he came to the corner of Rutland Square and
felt more at ease in the dark quiet street, the sombre look of which
suited his mood. He paused at last before the window of a poor-looking
shop over which the words Refreshment Bar were printed in white letters.
On the glass of the window were two flying inscriptions: Ginger Beer and
Ginger Ale. A cut ham was exposed on a great blue dish while near it
on a plate lay a segment of very light plum-pudding. He eyed this food
earnestly for some time and then, after glancing warily up and down the
street, went into the shop quickly.

He was hungry for, except some biscuits which he had asked two grudging
curates to bring him, he had eaten nothing since breakfast-time. He
sat down at an uncovered wooden table opposite two work-girls and a
mechanic. A slatternly girl waited on him.

"How much is a plate of peas?" he asked.

"Three halfpence, sir," said the girl.

"Bring me a plate of peas," he said, "and a bottle of ginger beer."

He spoke roughly in order to belie his air of gentility for his entry
had been followed by a pause of talk. His face was heated. To appear
natural he pushed his cap back on his head and planted his elbows on the
table. The mechanic and the two work-girls examined him point by point
before resuming their conversation in a subdued voice. The girl brought
him a plate of grocer's hot peas, seasoned with pepper and vinegar, a
fork and his ginger beer. He ate his food greedily and found it so good
that he made a note of the shop mentally. When he had eaten all the peas
he sipped his ginger beer and sat for some time thinking of Corley's
adventure. In his imagination he beheld the pair of lovers walking along
some dark road; he heard Corley's voice in deep energetic gallantries
and saw again the leer of the young woman's mouth. This vision made
him feel keenly his own poverty of purse and spirit. He was tired
of knocking about, of pulling the devil by the tail, of shifts and
intrigues. He would be thirty-one in November. Would he never get a good
job? Would he never have a home of his own? He thought how pleasant it
would be to have a warm fire to sit by and a good dinner to sit down to.
He had walked the streets long enough with friends and with girls. He
knew what those friends were worth: he knew the girls too. Experience
had embittered his heart against the world. But all hope had not left
him. He felt better after having eaten than he had felt before, less
weary of his life, less vanquished in spirit. He might yet be able to
settle down in some snug corner and live happily if he could only come
across some good simple-minded girl with a little of the ready.

He paid twopence halfpenny to the slatternly girl and went out of the
shop to begin his wandering again. He went into Capel Street and walked
along towards the City Hall. Then he turned into Dame Street. At the
corner of George's Street he met two friends of his and stopped to
converse with them. He was glad that he could rest from all his walking.
His friends asked him had he seen Corley and what was the latest. He
replied that he had spent the day with Corley. His friends talked
very little. They looked vacantly after some figures in the crowd and
sometimes made a critical remark. One said that he had seen Mac an hour
before in Westmoreland Street. At this Lenehan said that he had been
with Mac the night before in Egan's. The young man who had seen Mac
in Westmoreland Street asked was it true that Mac had won a bit over
a billiard match. Lenehan did not know: he said that Holohan had stood
them drinks in Egan's.

He left his friends at a quarter to ten and went up George's Street.
He turned to the left at the City Markets and walked on into Grafton
Street. The crowd of girls and young men had thinned and on his way
up the street he heard many groups and couples bidding one another
good-night. He went as far as the clock of the College of Surgeons: it
was on the stroke of ten. He set off briskly along the northern side
of the Green hurrying for fear Corley should return too soon. When he
reached the corner of Merrion Street he took his stand in the shadow of
a lamp and brought out one of the cigarettes which he had reserved and
lit it. He leaned against the lamp-post and kept his gaze fixed on the
part from which he expected to see Corley and the young woman return.

His mind became active again. He wondered had Corley managed it
successfully. He wondered if he had asked her yet or if he would leave
it to the last. He suffered all the pangs and thrills of his friend's
situation as well as those of his own. But the memory of Corley's slowly
revolving head calmed him somewhat: he was sure Corley would pull it off
all right. All at once the idea struck him that perhaps Corley had seen
her home by another way and given him the slip. His eyes searched the
street: there was no sign of them. Yet it was s