nformist: exemplars, the very
reverend John Conmee S. J., the reverend T. Salmon, D. D., provost of
Trinity college, Dr Alexander J. Dowie. At the bar, English or Irish:
exemplars, Seymour Bushe, K. C., Rufus Isaacs, K. C. On the stage modern
or Shakespearean: exemplars, Charles Wyndham, high comedian Osmond
Tearle (died 1901), exponent of Shakespeare.


Did the host encourage his guest to chant in a modulated voice a strange
legend on an allied theme?

Reassuringly, their place, where none could hear them talk, being
secluded, reassured, the decocted beverages, allowing for subsolid
residual sediment of a mechanical mixture, water plus sugar plus cream
plus cocoa, having been consumed.


Recite the first (major) part of this chanted legend.

     _Little Harry Hughes and his schoolfellows all
     Went out for to play ball.
     And the very first ball little Harry Hughes played
     He drove it o'er the jew's garden wall.
     And the very second ball little Harry Hughes played
     He broke the jew's windows all._



How did the son of Rudolph receive this first part?


With unmixed feeling. Smiling, a jew he heard with pleasure and saw the
unbroken kitchen window.


Recite the second part (minor) of the legend.

     _Then out there came the jew's daughter
     And she all dressed in green.
     "Come back, come back, you pretty little boy,
     And play your ball again."

     "I can't come back and I won't come back
     Without my schoolfellows all.
     For if my master he did hear
     He'd make it a sorry ball."

     She took him by the lilywhite hand
     And led him along the hall
     Until she led him to a room
     Where none could hear him call.

     She took a penknife out of her pocket
     And cut off his little head.
     And now he'll play his ball no more
     For he lies among the dead._


How did the father of Millicent receive this second part?

With mixed feelings. Unsmiling, he heard and saw with wonder a jew's
daughter, all dressed in green.


Condense Stephen's commentary.

One of all, the least of all, is the victim predestined. Once by
inadvertence twice by design he challenges his destiny. It comes when he
is abandoned and challenges him reluctant and, as an apparition of hope
and youth, holds him unresisting. It leads him to a strange habitation,
to a secret infidel apartment, and there, implacable, immolates him,
consenting.


Why was the host (victim predestined) sad?

He wished that a tale of a deed should be told of a deed not by him
should by him not be told.


Why was the host (reluctant, unresisting) still?

In accordance with the law of the conservation of energy.


Why was the host (secret infidel) silent?

He weighed the possible evidences for and against ritual murder: the
incitations of the hierarchy, the superstition of the populace, the
propagation of rumour in continued fraction of veridicity, the envy of
opulence, the influence of retaliation, the sporadic reappearance of
atavistic delinquency, the mitigating circumstances of fanaticism,
hypnotic suggestion and somnambulism.


From which (if any) of these mental or physical disorders was he not
totally immune?

From hypnotic suggestion: once, waking, he had not recognised his
sleeping apartment: more than once, waking, he had been for an
indefinite time incapable of moving or uttering sounds. From
somnambulism: once, sleeping, his body had risen, crouched and
crawled in the direction of a heatless fire and, having attained
its destination, there, curled, unheated, in night attire had lain,
sleeping.


Had this latter or any cognate phenomenon declared itself in any member
of his family?

Twice, in Holles street and in Ontario terrace, his daughter Millicent
(Milly) at the ages of 6 and 8 years had uttered in sleep an exclamation
of terror and had replied to the interrogations of two figures in night
attire with a vacant mute expression.


What other infantile memories had he of her?

15 June 1889. A querulous newborn female infant crying to cause and
lessen congestion. A child renamed Padney Socks she shook with shocks
her moneybox: counted his three free moneypenny buttons, one, tloo,
tlee: a doll, a boy, a sailor she cast away: blond, born of two dark,
she had blond ancestry, remote, a violation, Herr Hauptmann Hainau,
Austrian army, proximate, a hallucination, lieutenant Mulvey, British
navy.


What endemic characteristics were present?

Conversely the nasal and frontal formation was derived in a direct
line of lineage which, though interrupted, would continue at distant
intervals to more distant intervals to its most distant intervals.


What memories had he of her adolescence?

She relegated her hoop and skippingrope to a recess. On the duke's lawn,
entreated by an English visitor, she declined to permit him to make and
take away her photographic image (objection not stated). On the South
Circular road in the company of Elsa Potter, followed by an individual
of sinister aspect, she went half way down Stamer street and turned
abruptly back (reason of change not stated). On the vigil of the 15th
anniversary of her birth s