mber only their moments of ecstasy. For the years, he felt, had not
quenched his soul or hers. Their children, his writing, her household
cares had not quenched all their souls' tender fire. In one letter that
he had written to her then he had said: "Why is it that words like
these seem to me so dull and cold? Is it because there is no word tender
enough to be your name?"

Like distant music these words that he had written years before were
borne towards him from the past. He longed to be alone with her. When
the others had gone away, when he and she were in the room in their hotel,
then they would be alone together. He would call her softly:

"Gretta!"

Perhaps she would not hear at once: she would be undressing. Then
something in his voice would strike her. She would turn and look at
him....

At the corner of Winetavern Street they met a cab. He was glad of its
rattling noise as it saved him from conversation. She was looking out of
the window and seemed tired. The others spoke only a few words, pointing
out some building or street. The horse galloped along wearily under the
murky morning sky, dragging his old rattling box after his heels,
and Gabriel was again in a cab with her, galloping to catch the boat,
galloping to their honeymoon.

As the cab drove across O'Connell Bridge Miss O'Callaghan said:

"They say you never cross O'Connell Bridge without seeing a white
horse."

"I see a white man this time," said Gabriel.

"Where?" asked Mr. Bartell D'Arcy.

Gabriel pointed to the statue, on which lay patches of snow. Then he
nodded familiarly to it and waved his hand.

"Good-night, Dan," he said gaily.

When the cab drew up before the hotel, Gabriel jumped out and, in spite
of Mr. Bartell D'Arcy's protest, paid the driver. He gave the man a
shilling over his fare. The man saluted and said:

"A prosperous New Year to you, sir."

"The same to you," said Gabriel cordially.

She leaned for a moment on his arm in getting out of the cab and while
standing at the curbstone, bidding the others good-night. She leaned
lightly on his arm, as lightly as when she had danced with him a few
hours before. He had felt proud and happy then, happy that she was his,
proud of her grace and wifely carriage. But now, after the kindling
again of so many memories, the first touch of her body, musical and
strange and perfumed, sent through him a keen pang of lust. Under cover
of her silence he pressed her arm closely to his side; and, as they
stood at the hotel door, he felt that they had escaped from their lives
and duties, escaped from home and friends and run away together with
wild and radiant hearts to a new adventure.

An old man was dozing in a great hooded chair in the hall. He lit a
candle in the office and went before them to the stairs. They followed
him in silence, their feet falling in soft thuds on the thickly carpeted
stairs. She mounted the stairs behind the porter, her head bowed in
the ascent, her frail shoulders curved as with a burden, her skirt girt
tightly about her. He could have flung his arms about her hips and held
her still, for his arms were trembling with desire to seize her and only
the stress of his nails against the palms of his hands held the wild
impulse of his body in check. The porter halted on the stairs to settle
his guttering candle. They halted, too, on the steps below him. In the
silence Gabriel could hear the falling of the molten wax into the tray
and the thumping of his own heart against his ribs.

The porter led them along a corridor and opened a door. Then he set his
unstable candle down on a toilet-table and asked at what hour they were
to be called in the morning.

"Eight," said Gabriel.

The porter pointed to the tap of the electric-light and began a muttered
apology, but Gabriel cut him short.

"We don't want any light. We have light enough from the street. And I
say," he added, pointing to the candle, "you might remove that handsome
article, like a good man."

The porter took up his candle again, but slowly, for he was surprised by
such a novel idea. Then he mumbled good-night and went out. Gabriel shot
the lock to.

A ghostly light from the street lamp lay in a long shaft from one window
to the door. Gabriel threw his overcoat and hat on a couch and crossed
the room towards the window. He looked down into the street in order
that his emotion might calm a little. Then he turned and leaned against
a chest of drawers with his back to the light. She had taken off her hat
and cloak and was standing before a large swinging mirror, unhooking her
waist. Gabriel paused for a few moments, watching her, and then said:

"Gretta!"

She turned away from the mirror slowly and walked along the shaft of
light towards him. Her face looked so serious and weary that the words
would not pass Gabriel's lips. No, it was not the moment yet.

"You looked tired," he said.

"I am a little," she answered.

"You don't feel ill or weak?"

"No, tired: that's all."

She went on to the window and stood there, looking out. Gabriel waited
again and then, fearing that diffidence was about to conquer him, he
said abruptly:

"By the wa