ings he had made for his speech. He
was undecided about the lines from Robert Browning, for he feared they
would be above the heads of his hearers. Some quotation that they would
recognise from Shakespeare or from the Melodies would be better. The
indelicate clacking of the men's heels and the shuffling of their soles
reminded him that their grade of culture differed from his. He would
only make himself ridiculous by quoting poetry to them which they
could not understand. They would think that he was airing his superior
education. He would fail with them just as he had failed with the girl
in the pantry. He had taken up a wrong tone. His whole speech was a
mistake from first to last, an utter failure.

Just then his aunts and his wife came out of the ladies' dressing-room.
His aunts were two small, plainly dressed old women. Aunt Julia was an
inch or so the taller. Her hair, drawn low over the tops of her ears,
was grey; and grey also, with darker shadows, was her large flaccid
face. Though she was stout in build and stood erect, her slow eyes and
parted lips gave her the appearance of a woman who did not know where
she was or where she was going. Aunt Kate was more vivacious. Her
face, healthier than her sister's, was all puckers and creases, like a
shrivelled red apple, and her hair, braided in the same old-fashioned
way, had not lost its ripe nut colour.

They both kissed Gabriel frankly. He was their favourite nephew, the son
of their dead elder sister, Ellen, who had married T. J. Conroy of the
Port and Docks.

"Gretta tells me you're not going to take a cab back to Monkstown
tonight, Gabriel," said Aunt Kate.

"No," said Gabriel, turning to his wife, "we had quite enough of that
last year, hadn't we? Don't you remember, Aunt Kate, what a cold Gretta
got out of it? Cab windows rattling all the way, and the east wind
blowing in after we passed Merrion. Very jolly it was. Gretta caught a
dreadful cold."

Aunt Kate frowned severely and nodded her head at every word.

"Quite right, Gabriel, quite right," she said. "You can't be too
careful."

"But as for Gretta there," said Gabriel, "she'd walk home in the snow if
she were let."

Mrs. Conroy laughed.

"Don't mind him, Aunt Kate," she said. "He's really an awful bother,
what with green shades for Tom's eyes at night and making him do the
dumb-bells, and forcing Eva to eat the stirabout. The poor child! And
she simply hates the sight of it!... O, but you'll never guess what he
makes me wear now!"

She broke out into a peal of laughter and glanced at her husband, whose
admiring and happy eyes had been wandering from her dress to her face
and hair. The two aunts laughed heartily, too, for Gabriel's solicitude
was a standing joke with them.

"Goloshes!" said Mrs. Conroy. "That's the latest. Whenever it's wet
underfoot I must put on my galoshes. Tonight even, he wanted me to put
them on, but I wouldn't. The next thing he'll buy me will be a diving
suit."

Gabriel laughed nervously and patted his tie reassuringly, while Aunt
Kate nearly doubled herself, so heartily did she enjoy the joke. The
smile soon faded from Aunt Julia's face and her mirthless eyes were
directed towards her nephew's face. After a pause she asked:

"And what are goloshes, Gabriel?"

"Goloshes, Julia!" exclaimed her sister "Goodness me, don't you know
what goloshes are? You wear them over your... over your boots, Gretta,
isn't it?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Conroy. "Guttapercha things. We both have a pair now.
Gabriel says everyone wears them on the Continent."

"O, on the Continent," murmured Aunt Julia, nodding her head slowly.

Gabriel knitted his brows and said, as if he were slightly angered:

"It's nothing very wonderful, but Gretta thinks it very funny because
she says the word reminds her of Christy Minstrels."

"But tell me, Gabriel," said Aunt Kate, with brisk tact. "Of course,
you've seen about the room. Gretta was saying..."

"O, the room is all right," replied Gabriel. "I've taken one in the
Gresham."

"To be sure," said Aunt Kate, "by far the best thing to do. And the
children, Gretta, you're not anxious about them?"

"O, for one night," said Mrs. Conroy. "Besides, Bessie will look after
them."

"To be sure," said Aunt Kate again. "What a comfort it is to have a girl
like that, one you can depend on! There's that Lily, I'm sure I don't
know what has come over her lately. She's not the girl she was at all."

Gabriel was about to ask his aunt some questions on this point, but she
broke off suddenly to gaze after her sister, who had wandered down the
stairs and was craning her neck over the banisters.

"Now, I ask you," she said almost testily, "where is Julia going? Julia!
Julia! Where are you going?"

Julia, who had gone half way down one flight, came back and announced
blandly:

"Here's Freddy."

At the same moment a clapping of hands and a final flourish of the
pianist told that the waltz had ended. The drawing-room door was opened
from within and some couples came out. Aunt Kate drew Gabriel aside
hurriedly and whispered into his ear:

"Slip down, Gabriel, like a good fellow and see if he's all right, 