 marks of hospitality which he contemplated but suppressed,
reserving them for another and for himself on future occasions to
complete the act begun?

The reparation of a fissure of the length of 1 1/2 inches in the right
side of his guest's jacket. A gift to his guest of one of the four
lady's handkerchiefs, if and when ascertained to be in a presentable
condition.


Who drank more quickly?

Bloom, having the advantage of ten seconds at the initiation and taking,
from the concave surface of a spoon along the handle of which a steady
flow of heat was conducted, three sips to his opponent's one, six to
two, nine to three.


What cerebration accompanied his frequentative act?

Concluding by inspection but erroneously that his silent companion was
engaged in mental composition he reflected on the pleasures derived from
literature of instruction rather than of amusement as he himself had
applied to the works of William Shakespeare more than once for the
solution of difficult problems in imaginary or real life.


Had he found their solution?

In spite of careful and repeated reading of certain classical passages,
aided by a glossary, he had derived imperfect conviction from the text,
the answers not bearing in all points.


What lines concluded his first piece of original verse written by him,
potential poet, at the age of 11 in 1877 on the occasion of the offering
of three prizes of 10/-, 5/- and 2/6 respectively for competition by the
_Shamrock_, a weekly newspaper?

     _An ambition to squint
     At my verses in print
     Makes me hope that for these you'll find room?.
     If you so condescend
     Then please place at the end
     The name of yours truly, L. Bloom._

Did he find four separating forces between his temporary guest and him?

Name, age, race, creed.


What anagrams had he made on his name in youth?

     Leopold Bloom
     Ellpodbomool
     Molldopeloob
     Bollopedoom
     Old Ollebo, M. P.


What acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first name had he (kinetic
poet) sent to Miss Marion (Molly) Tweedy on the 14 February 1888?

     _Poets oft have sung in rhyme
     Of music sweet their praise divine.
     Let them hymn it nine times nine.
     Dearer far than song or wine.
     You are mine. The world is mine._


What had prevented him from completing a topical song (music by R. G.
Johnston) on the events of the past, or fixtures for the actual, years,
entitled _If Brian Boru could but come back and see old Dublin now_,
commissioned by Michael Gunn, lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48,
49 South King street, and to be introduced into the sixth scene, the
valley of diamonds, of the second edition (30 January 1893) of the grand
annual Christmas pantomime _Sinbad the Sailor_ (produced by R Shelton
26 December 1892, written by Greenleaf Whittier, scenery by George
A. Jackson and Cecil Hicks, costumes by Mrs and Miss Whelan under
the personal supervision of Mrs Michael Gunn, ballets by Jessie Noir,
harlequinade by Thomas Otto) and sung by Nelly Bouverist, principal
girl?

Firstly, oscillation between events of imperial and of local interest,
the anticipated diamond jubilee of Queen Victoria (born 1820, acceded
1837) and the posticipated opening of the new municipal fish market:
secondly, apprehension of opposition from extreme circles on the
questions of the respective visits of Their Royal Highnesses the
duke and duchess of York (real) and of His Majesty King Brian Boru
(imaginary): thirdly, a conflict between professional etiquette and
professional emulation concerning the recent erections of the Grand
Lyric Hall on Burgh Quay and the Theatre Royal in Hawkins street:
fourthly, distraction resultant from compassion for Nelly Bouverist's
non-intellectual, non-political, non-topical expression of countenance
and concupiscence caused by Nelly Bouverist's revelations of white
articles of non-intellectual, non-political, non-topical underclothing
while she (Nelly Bouverist) was in the articles: fifthly, the
difficulties of the selection of appropriate music and humorous
allusions from _Everybody's Book of Jokes_ (1000 pages and a laugh in
every one): sixthly, the rhymes, homophonous and cacophonous, associated
with the names of the new lord mayor, Daniel Tallon, the new high
sheriff, Thomas Pile and the new solicitorgeneral, Dunbar Plunket
Barton.


What relation existed between their ages?

16 years before in 1888 when Bloom was of Stephen's present age Stephen
was 6. 16 years after in 1920 when Stephen would be of Bloom's present
age Bloom would be 54. In 1936 when Bloom would be 70 and Stephen 54
their ages initially in the ratio of 16 to 0 would be as 17 1/2 to 13
1/2, the proportion increasing and the disparity diminishing according
as arbitrary future years were added, for if the proportion existing in
1883 had continued immutable, conceiving that to be possible, till then
1904 when Stephen was 22 Bloom would be 374 and in 1920 when Stephen
would be 38, as Bloom then was, Bloom would be 646 while in 1952 when
Stephen would have attained the maximum postdiluvian age of 70 Bloom,
being 1190 years alive havi