 Power's good offices during domestic quarrels, as well
as many small, but opportune loans, said:

"O, you needn't tell me that, Mr. Power. I know you're a friend of his,
not like some of the others he does be with. They're all right so long
as he has money in his pocket to keep him out from his wife and family.
Nice friends! Who was he with tonight, I'd like to know?"

Mr. Power shook his head but said nothing.

"I'm so sorry," she continued, "that I've nothing in the house to offer
you. But if you wait a minute I'll send round to Fogarty's at the
corner."

Mr. Power stood up.

"We were waiting for him to come home with the money. He never seems to
think he has a home at all."

"O, now, Mrs. Kernan," said Mr. Power, "we'll make him turn over a new
leaf. I'll talk to Martin. He's the man. We'll come here one of these
nights and talk it over."

She saw him to the door. The carman was stamping up and down the
footpath, and swinging his arms to warm himself.

"It's very kind of you to bring him home," she said.

"Not at all," said Mr. Power.

He got up on the car. As it drove off he raised his hat to her gaily.

"We'll make a new man of him," he said. "Good-night, Mrs. Kernan."

* * * * *

Mrs. Kernan's puzzled eyes watched the car till it was out of sight.
Then she withdrew them, went into the house and emptied her husband's
pockets.

She was an active, practical woman of middle age. Not long before she
had celebrated her silver wedding and renewed her intimacy with her
husband by waltzing with him to Mr. Power's accompaniment. In her days
of courtship, Mr. Kernan had seemed to her a not ungallant figure: and
she still hurried to the chapel door whenever a wedding was reported
and, seeing the bridal pair, recalled with vivid pleasure how she had
passed out of the Star of the Sea Church in Sandymount, leaning on the
arm of a jovial well-fed man, who was dressed smartly in a frock-coat
and lavender trousers and carried a silk hat gracefully balanced upon
his other arm. After three weeks she had found a wife's life irksome
and, later on, when she was beginning to find it unbearable, she had
become a mother. The part of mother presented to her no insuperable
difficulties and for twenty-five years she had kept house shrewdly for
her husband. Her two eldest sons were launched. One was in a draper's
shop in Glasgow and the other was clerk to a tea-merchant in Belfast.
They were good sons, wrote regularly and sometimes sent home money. The
other children were still at school.

Mr. Kernan sent a letter to his office next day and remained in bed. She
made beef-tea for him and scolded him roundly. She accepted his frequent
intemperance as part of the climate, healed him dutifully whenever he
was sick and always tried to make him eat a breakfast. There were worse
husbands. He had never been violent since the boys had grown up, and she
knew that he would walk to the end of Thomas Street and back again to
book even a small order.

Two nights after, his friends came to see him. She brought them up to
his bedroom, the air of which was impregnated with a personal odour,
and gave them chairs at the fire. Mr. Kernan's tongue, the occasional
stinging pain of which had made him somewhat irritable during the day,
became more polite. He sat propped up in the bed by pillows and the
little colour in his puffy cheeks made them resemble warm cinders. He
apologised to his guests for the disorder of the room, but at the same
time looked at them a little proudly, with a veteran's pride.

He was quite unconscious that he was the victim of a plot which his
friends, Mr. Cunningham, Mr. M'Coy and Mr. Power had disclosed to Mrs.
Kernan in the parlour. The idea had been Mr. Power's, but its development
was entrusted to Mr. Cunningham. Mr. Kernan came of Protestant stock
and, though he had been converted to the Catholic faith at the time
of his marriage, he had not been in the pale of the Church for twenty
years. He was fond, moreover, of giving side-thrusts at Catholicism.

Mr. Cunningham was the very man for such a case. He was an elder
colleague of Mr. Power. His own domestic life was not very happy. People
had great sympathy with him, for it was known that he had married an
unpresentable woman who was an incurable drunkard. He had set up house
for her six times; and each time she had pawned the furniture on him.

Everyone had respect for poor Martin Cunningham. He was a thoroughly
sensible man, influential and intelligent. His blade of human knowledge,
natural astuteness particularised by long association with cases in the
police courts, had been tempered by brief immersions in the waters
of general philosophy. He was well informed. His friends bowed to his
opinions and considered that his face was like Shakespeare's.

When the plot had been disclosed to her, Mrs. Kernan had said:

"I leave it all in your hands, Mr. Cunningham."

After a quarter of a century of married life, she had very few illusions
left. Religion for her was a habit, and she suspected that a man of her
husband's age would not change greatly before death. She was tempted to
see a curious ap