te surplice, was observed to be struggling into the pulpit.
Simultaneously the congregation unsettled, produced handkerchiefs and
knelt upon them with care. Mr. Kernan followed the general example. The
priest's figure now stood upright in the pulpit, two-thirds of its bulk,
crowned by a massive red face, appearing above the balustrade.

Father Purdon knelt down, turned towards the red speck of light
and, covering his face with his hands, prayed. After an interval, he
uncovered his face and rose. The congregation rose also and settled
again on its benches. Mr. Kernan restored his hat to its original
position on his knee and presented an attentive face to the preacher.
The preacher turned back each wide sleeve of his surplice with an
elaborate large gesture and slowly surveyed the array of faces. Then he
said:

"For the children of this world are wiser in their generation than the
children of light. Wherefore make unto yourselves friends out of the
mammon of iniquity so that when you die they may receive you into
everlasting dwellings."

Father Purdon developed the text with resonant assurance. It was one of
the most difficult texts in all the Scriptures, he said, to interpret
properly. It was a text which might seem to the casual observer at
variance with the lofty morality elsewhere preached by Jesus Christ.
But, he told his hearers, the text had seemed to him specially adapted
for the guidance of those whose lot it was to lead the life of the world
and who yet wished to lead that life not in the manner of worldlings. It
was a text for business men and professional men. Jesus Christ, with His
divine understanding of every cranny of our human nature, understood
that all men were not called to the religious life, that by far the vast
majority were forced to live in the world, and, to a certain extent,
for the world: and in this sentence He designed to give them a word of
counsel, setting before them as exemplars in the religious life those
very worshippers of Mammon who were of all men the least solicitous in
matters religious.

He told his hearers that he was there that evening for no terrifying,
no extravagant purpose; but as a man of the world speaking to his
fellow-men. He came to speak to business men and he would speak to them
in a businesslike way. If he might use the metaphor, he said, he was
their spiritual accountant; and he wished each and every one of his
hearers to open his books, the books of his spiritual life, and see if
they tallied accurately with conscience.

Jesus Christ was not a hard taskmaster. He understood our little
failings, understood the weakness of our poor fallen nature, understood
the temptations of this life. We might have had, we all had from time to
time, our temptations: we might have, we all had, our failings. But one
thing only, he said, he would ask of his hearers. And that was: to be
straight and manly with God. If their accounts tallied in every point to
say:

"Well, I have verified my accounts. I find all well."

But if, as might happen, there were some discrepancies, to admit the
truth, to be frank and say like a man:

"Well, I have looked into my accounts. I find this wrong and this wrong.
But, with God's grace, I will rectify this and this. I will set right my
accounts."




THE DEAD

LILY, the caretaker's daughter, was literally run off her feet. Hardly
had she brought one gentleman into the little pantry behind the office
on the ground floor and helped him off with his overcoat than the wheezy
hall-door bell clanged again and she had to scamper along the bare
hallway to let in another guest. It was well for her she had not to
attend to the ladies also. But Miss Kate and Miss Julia had thought
of that and had converted the bathroom upstairs into a ladies'
dressing-room. Miss Kate and Miss Julia were there, gossiping and
laughing and fussing, walking after each other to the head of the
stairs, peering down over the banisters and calling down to Lily to ask
her who had come.

It was always a great affair, the Misses Morkan's annual dance.
Everybody who knew them came to it, members of the family, old friends
of the family, the members of Julia's choir, any of Kate's pupils that
were grown up enough, and even some of Mary Jane's pupils too. Never
once had it fallen flat. For years and years it had gone off in splendid
style, as long as anyone could remember; ever since Kate and Julia,
after the death of their brother Pat, had left the house in Stoney
Batter and taken Mary Jane, their only niece, to live with them in the
dark, gaunt house on Usher's Island, the upper part of which they had
rented from Mr. Fulham, the corn-factor on the ground floor. That was a
good thirty years ago if it was a day. Mary Jane, who was then a little
girl in short clothes, was now the main prop of the household, for she
had the organ in Haddington Road. She had been through the Academy
and gave a pupils' concert every year in the upper room of the Antient
Concert Rooms. Many of her pupils belonged to the better-class families
on the Kingstown and Dalkey line. Old as they were, her aunts also did
their sha