 if they arrested you for murder
somewhere. Justice. On the night of the seventeenth of February 1904 the
prisoner was seen by two witnesses. Other fellow did it: other me.
Hat, tie, overcoat, nose. _Lui, c'est moi_. You seem to have enjoyed
yourself.

Proudly walking. Whom were you trying to walk like? Forget: a
dispossessed. With mother's money order, eight shillings, the banging
door of the post office slammed in your face by the usher. Hunger
toothache. _Encore deux minutes_. Look clock. Must get. _Ferme_. Hired
dog! Shoot him to bloody bits with a bang shotgun, bits man spattered
walls all brass buttons. Bits all khrrrrklak in place clack back. Not
hurt? O, that's all right. Shake hands. See what I meant, see? O, that's
all right. Shake a shake. O, that's all only all right.

You were going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe after fiery
Columbanus. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt from
their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing: _Euge! Euge_! Pretending to speak
broken English as you dragged your valise, porter threepence, across
the slimy pier at Newhaven. _Comment?_ Rich booty you brought back; _Le
Tutu_, five tattered numbers of _Pantalon Blanc et Culotte Rouge_; a
blue French telegram, curiosity to show:

--Mother dying come home father.

The aunt thinks you killed your mother. That's why she won't.

     _Then here's a health to Mulligan's aunt
     And I'll tell you the reason why.
     She always kept things decent in
     The Hannigan famileye._


His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over the sand furrows, along by
the boulders of the south wall. He stared at them proudly, piled stone
mammoth skulls. Gold light on sea, on sand, on boulders. The sun is
there, the slender trees, the lemon houses.

Paris rawly waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Moist pith of
farls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court
the air. Belluomo rises from the bed of his wife's lover's wife, the
kerchiefed housewife is astir, a saucer of acetic acid in her hand. In
Rodot's Yvonne and Madeleine newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering
with gold teeth _chaussons_ of pastry, their mouths yellowed with the
_pus_ of _flan breton_. Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased
pleasers, curled conquistadores.

Noon slumbers. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through fingers
smeared with printer's ink, sipping his green fairy as Patrice his
white. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down their gullets. _Un demi
setier!_ A jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron. She serves me
at his beck. _Il est irlandais. Hollandais? Non fromage. Deux irlandais,
nous, Irlande, vous savez ah, oui!_ She thought you wanted a cheese
_hollandais_. Your postprandial, do you know that word? Postprandial.
There was a fellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer fellow, used to call
it his postprandial. Well: _slainte_! Around the slabbed tables the
tangle of wined breaths and grumbling gorges. His breath hangs over our
saucestained plates, the green fairy's fang thrusting between his lips.
Of Ireland, the Dalcassians, of hopes, conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith
now, A E, pimander, good shepherd of men. To yoke me as his yokefellow,
our crimes our common cause. You're your father's son. I know the voice.
His fustian shirt, sanguineflowered, trembles its Spanish tassels at
his secrets. M. Drumont, famous journalist, Drumont, know what he called
queen Victoria? Old hag with the yellow teeth. _Vieille ogresse_
with the _dents jaunes_. Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, _La Patrie_, M.
Millevoye, Felix Faure, know how he died? Licentious men. The froeken,
_bonne a tout faire_, who rubs male nakedness in the bath at Upsala.
_Moi faire_, she said, _Tous les messieurs_. Not this _Monsieur_, I
said. Most licentious custom. Bath a most private thing. I wouldn't let
my brother, not even my own brother, most lascivious thing. Green eyes,
I see you. Fang, I feel. Lascivious people.

The blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear. Loose
tobaccoshreds catch fire: a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. Raw
facebones under his peep of day boy's hat. How the head centre got away,
authentic version. Got up as a young bride, man, veil, orangeblossoms,
drove out the road to Malahide. Did, faith. Of lost leaders, the
betrayed, wild escapes. Disguises, clutched at, gone, not here.

Spurned lover. I was a strapping young gossoon at that time, I tell you.
I'll show you my likeness one day. I was, faith. Lover, for her love he
prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist of his sept, under the walls
of Clerkenwell and, crouching, saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upward
in the fog. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. In gay Paree he hides,
Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. Making his day's stations,
the dingy printingcase, his three taverns, the Montmartre lair he sleeps
short night in, rue de la Goutte-d'Or, damascened with flyblown faces of
the gone. Loveless, landless, wifeless. She is quite nicey comfy
without her outcast man, madame in rue Git-le-Coeur, canary and two
buck lodgers. Peachy cheeks, a zebra skirt, frisk