im less than presence of noise?

Because of the surety of the sense of touch in his firm full masculine
feminine passive active hand.


What quality did it (his hand) possess but with what counteracting
influence?

The operative surgical quality but that he was reluctant to shed human
blood even when the end justified the means, preferring, in their
natural order, heliotherapy, psychophysicotherapeutics, osteopathic
surgery.


What lay under exposure on the lower, middle and upper shelves of the
kitchen dresser, opened by Bloom?

On the lower shelf five vertical breakfast plates, six horizontal
breakfast saucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups, a
moustachecup, uninverted, and saucer of Crown Derby, four white
goldrimmed eggcups, an open shammy purse displaying coins, mostly
copper, and a phial of aromatic (violet) comfits. On the middle shelf
a chipped eggcup containing pepper, a drum of table salt, four
conglomerated black olives in oleaginous paper, an empty pot of
Plumtree's potted meat, an oval wicker basket bedded with fibre and
containing one Jersey pear, a halfempty bottle of William Gilbey and
Co's white invalid port, half disrobed of its swathe of coralpink tissue
paper, a packet of Epps's soluble cocoa, five ounces of Anne Lynch's
choice tea at 2/- per lb in a crinkled leadpaper bag, a cylindrical
canister containing the best crystallised lump sugar, two onions, one,
the larger, Spanish, entire, the other, smaller, Irish, bisected with
augmented surface and more redolent, a jar of Irish Model Dairy's cream,
a jug of brown crockery containing a naggin and a quarter of soured
adulterated milk, converted by heat into water, acidulous serum and
semisolidified curds, which added to the quantity subtracted for Mr
Bloom's and Mrs Fleming's breakfasts, made one imperial pint, the total
quantity originally delivered, two cloves, a halfpenny and a small dish
containing a slice of fresh ribsteak. On the upper shelf a battery of
jamjars (empty) of various sizes and proveniences.


What attracted his attention lying on the apron of the dresser?

Four polygonal fragments of two lacerated scarlet betting tickets,
numbered 8 87, 88 6.


What reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow?

Reminiscences of coincidences, truth stranger than fiction,
preindicative of the result of the Gold Cup flat handicap, the official
and definitive result of which he had read in the _Evening Telegraph_,
late pink edition, in the cabman's shelter, at Butt bridge.


Where had previous intimations of the result, effected or projected,
been received by him?

In Bernard Kiernan's licensed premises 8, 9 and 10 little Britain
street: in David Byrne's licensed premises, 14 Duke street: in O'Connell
street lower, outside Graham Lemon's when a dark man had placed in
his hand a throwaway (subsequently thrown away), advertising Elijah,
restorer of the church in Zion: in Lincoln place outside the premises of
F. W. Sweny and Co (Limited), dispensing chemists, when, when Frederick
M. (Bantam) Lyons had rapidly and successively requested, perused and
restituted the copy of the current issue of the _Freeman's Journal and
National Press_ which he had been about to throw away (subsequently
thrown away), he had proceeded towards the oriental edifice of
the Turkish and Warm Baths, 11 Leinster street, with the light of
inspiration shining in his countenance and bearing in his arms the
secret of the race, graven in the language of prediction.

What qualifying considerations allayed his perturbations?

The difficulties of interpretation since the significance of any event
followed its occurrence as variably as the acoustic report followed the
electrical discharge and of counterestimating against an actual loss
by failure to interpret the total sum of possible losses proceeding
originally from a successful interpretation.


His mood?

He had not risked, he did not expect, he had not been disappointed, he
was satisfied.


What satisfied him?

To have sustained no positive loss. To have brought a positive gain to
others. Light to the gentiles.


How did Bloom prepare a collation for a gentile?

He poured into two teacups two level spoonfuls, four in all, of Epps's
soluble cocoa and proceeded according to the directions for use printed
on the label, to each adding after sufficient time for infusion the
prescribed ingredients for diffusion in the manner and in the quantity
prescribed.


What supererogatory marks of special hospitality did the host show his
guest?

Relinquishing his symposiarchal right to the moustache cup of imitation
Crown Derby presented to him by his only daughter, Millicent (Milly),
he substituted a cup identical with that of his guest and served
extraordinarily to his guest and, in reduced measure, to himself the
viscous cream ordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his wife Marion
(Molly).


Was the guest conscious of and did he acknowledge these marks of
hospitality?

His attention was directed to them by his host jocosely, and he accepted
them seriously as they drank in jocoserious silence Epps's massproduct,
the creature cocoa.


Were there