"I'm surprised at you, Mrs. Kearney," said Mr. Holohan. "I never thought
you would treat us this way."

"And what way did you treat me?" asked Mrs. Kearney.

Her face was inundated with an angry colour and she looked as if she
would attack someone with her hands.

"I'm asking for my rights." she said.

"You might have some sense of decency," said Mr. Holohan.

"Might I, indeed?... And when I ask when my daughter is going to be paid
I can't get a civil answer."

She tossed her head and assumed a haughty voice:

"You must speak to the secretary. It's not my business. I'm a great
fellow fol-the-diddle-I-do."

"I thought you were a lady," said Mr. Holohan, walking away from her
abruptly.

After that Mrs. Kearney's conduct was condemned on all hands: everyone
approved of what the Committee had done. She stood at the door, haggard
with rage, arguing with her husband and daughter, gesticulating with
them. She waited until it was time for the second part to begin in the
hope that the secretaries would approach her. But Miss Healy had kindly
consented to play one or two accompaniments. Mrs. Kearney had to stand
aside to allow the baritone and his accompanist to pass up to the
platform. She stood still for an instant like an angry stone image
and, when the first notes of the song struck her ear, she caught up her
daughter's cloak and said to her husband:

"Get a cab!"

He went out at once. Mrs. Kearney wrapped the cloak round her daughter
and followed him. As she passed through the doorway she stopped and
glared into Mr. Holohan's face.

"I'm not done with you yet," she said.

"But I'm done with you," said Mr. Holohan.

Kathleen followed her mother meekly. Mr. Holohan began to pace up and
down the room, in order to cool himself for he his skin on fire.

"That's a nice lady!" he said. "O, she's a nice lady!"

"You did the proper thing, Holohan," said Mr. O'Madden Burke, poised
upon his umbrella in approval.




GRACE

TWO GENTLEMEN who were in the lavatory at the time tried to lift him up:
but he was quite helpless. He lay curled up at the foot of the stairs
down which he had fallen. They succeeded in turning him over. His hat
had rolled a few yards away and his clothes were smeared with the filth
and ooze of the floor on which he had lain, face downwards. His eyes
were closed and he breathed with a grunting noise. A thin stream of
blood trickled from the corner of his mouth.

These two gentlemen and one of the curates carried him up the stairs
and laid him down again on the floor of the bar. In two minutes he was
surrounded by a ring of men. The manager of the bar asked everyone
who he was and who was with him. No one knew who he was but one of the
curates said he had served the gentleman with a small rum.

"Was he by himself?" asked the manager.

"No, sir. There was two gentlemen with him."

"And where are they?"

No one knew; a voice said:

"Give him air. He's fainted."

The ring of onlookers distended and closed again elastically. A dark
medal of blood had formed itself near the man's head on the tessellated
floor. The manager, alarmed by the grey pallor of the man's face, sent
for a policeman.

His collar was unfastened and his necktie undone. He opened eyes for an
instant, sighed and closed them again. One of gentlemen who had carried
him upstairs held a dinged silk hat in his hand. The manager asked
repeatedly did no one know who the injured man was or where had his
friends gone. The door of the bar opened and an immense constable
entered. A crowd which had followed him down the laneway collected
outside the door, struggling to look in through the glass panels.

The manager at once began to narrate what he knew. The constable, a young
man with thick immobile features, listened. He moved his head slowly to
right and left and from the manager to the person on the floor, as if
he feared to be the victim of some delusion. Then he drew off his glove,
produced a small book from his waist, licked the lead of his pencil and
made ready to indite. He asked in a suspicious provincial accent:

"Who is the man? What's his name and address?"

A young man in a cycling-suit cleared his way through the ring of
bystanders. He knelt down promptly beside the injured man and called for
water. The constable knelt down also to help. The young man washed the
blood from the injured man's mouth and then called for some brandy. The
constable repeated the order in an authoritative voice until a curate
came running with the glass. The brandy was forced down the man's
throat. In a few seconds he opened his eyes and looked about him. He
looked at the circle of faces and then, understanding, strove to rise to
his feet.

"You're all right now?" asked the young man in the cycling-suit.

"Sha,'s nothing," said the injured man, trying to stand up.

He was helped to his feet. The manager said something about a hospital
and some of the bystanders gave advice. The battered silk hat was placed
on the man's head. The constable asked:

"Where do you live?"

The man, without answering, began to twirl the ends of his moustache.
He made light of his accident. It was nothin