 corner of Cathedral Street. They were all friends of the
Kearneys--musical friends or Nationalist friends; and, when they had
played every little counter of gossip, they shook hands with one
another all together, laughing at the crossing of so many hands, and said
good-bye to one another in Irish. Soon the name of Miss Kathleen Kearney
began to be heard often on people's lips. People said that she was
very clever at music and a very nice girl and, moreover, that she was
a believer in the language movement. Mrs. Kearney was well content at
this. Therefore she was not surprised when one day Mr. Holohan came to
her and proposed that her daughter should be the accompanist at a
series of four grand concerts which his Society was going to give in the
Antient Concert Rooms. She brought him into the drawing-room, made him
sit down and brought out the decanter and the silver biscuit-barrel. She
entered heart and soul into the details of the enterprise, advised and
dissuaded: and finally a contract was drawn up by which Kathleen was to
receive eight guineas for her services as accompanist at the four grand
concerts.

As Mr. Holohan was a novice in such delicate matters as the wording of
bills and the disposing of items for a programme, Mrs. Kearney helped
him. She had tact. She knew what artistes should go into capitals and
what artistes should go into small type. She knew that the first tenor
would not like to come on after Mr. Meade's comic turn. To keep the
audience continually diverted she slipped the doubtful items in between
the old favourites. Mr. Holohan called to see her every day to have her
advice on some point. She was invariably friendly and advising--homely,
in fact. She pushed the decanter towards him, saying:

"Now, help yourself, Mr. Holohan!"

And while he was helping himself she said:

"Don't be afraid! Don't be afraid of it!"

Everything went on smoothly. Mrs. Kearney bought some lovely blush-pink
charmeuse in Brown Thomas's to let into the front of Kathleen's dress.
It cost a pretty penny; but there are occasions when a little expense
is justifiable. She took a dozen of two-shilling tickets for the final
concert and sent them to those friends who could not be trusted to come
otherwise. She forgot nothing, and, thanks to her, everything that was
to be done was done.

The concerts were to be on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
When Mrs. Kearney arrived with her daughter at the Antient Concert Rooms
on Wednesday night she did not like the look of things. A few young men,
wearing bright blue badges in their coats, stood idle in the vestibule;
none of them wore evening dress. She passed by with her daughter and a
quick glance through the open door of the hall showed her the cause of
the stewards' idleness. At first she wondered had she mistaken the hour.
No, it was twenty minutes to eight.

In the dressing-room behind the stage she was introduced to the
secretary of the Society, Mr. Fitzpatrick. She smiled and shook his
hand. He was a little man, with a white, vacant face. She noticed that
he wore his soft brown hat carelessly on the side of his head and that
his accent was flat. He held a programme in his hand, and, while he was
talking to her, he chewed one end of it into a moist pulp. He seemed
to bear disappointments lightly. Mr. Holohan came into the dressingroom
every few minutes with reports from the box-office. The artistes talked
among themselves nervously, glanced from time to time at the mirror and
rolled and unrolled their music. When it was nearly half-past eight, the
few people in the hall began to express their desire to be entertained.
Mr. Fitzpatrick came in, smiled vacantly at the room, and said:

"Well now, ladies and gentlemen. I suppose we'd better open the ball."

Mrs. Kearney rewarded his very flat final syllable with a quick stare of
contempt, and then said to her daughter encouragingly:

"Are you ready, dear?"

When she had an opportunity, she called Mr. Holohan aside and asked him
to tell her what it meant. Mr. Holohan did not know what it meant.
He said that the Committee had made a mistake in arranging for four
concerts: four was too many.

"And the artistes!" said Mrs. Kearney. "Of course they are doing their
best, but really they are not good."

Mr. Holohan admitted that the artistes were no good but the Committee,
he said, had decided to let the first three concerts go as they pleased
and reserve all the talent for Saturday night. Mrs. Kearney said
nothing, but, as the mediocre items followed one another on the platform
and the few people in the hall grew fewer and fewer, she began to regret
that she had put herself to any expense for such a concert. There was
something she didn't like in the look of things and Mr. Fitzpatrick's
vacant smile irritated her very much. However, she said nothing and
waited to see how it would end. The concert expired shortly before ten,
and everyone went home quickly.

The concert on Thursday night was better attended, but Mrs. Kearney
saw at once that the house was filled with paper. The audience behaved
indecorously, as if the concert were an info