h two establishments to keep up, of course he
couldn't....

He felt his great body again aching for the comfort of the public-house.
The fog had begun to chill him and he wondered could he touch Pat in
O'Neill's. He could not touch him for more than a bob--and a bob was
no use. Yet he must get money somewhere or other: he had spent his
last penny for the g.p. and soon it would be too late for getting money
anywhere. Suddenly, as he was fingering his watch-chain, he thought of
Terry Kelly's pawn-office in Fleet Street. That was the dart! Why didn't
he think of it sooner?

He went through the narrow alley of Temple Bar quickly, muttering to
himself that they could all go to hell because he was going to have
a good night of it. The clerk in Terry Kelly's said A crown! but the
consignor held out for six shillings; and in the end the six shillings
was allowed him literally. He came out of the pawn-office joyfully,
making a little cylinder, of the coins between his thumb and fingers. In
Westmoreland Street the footpaths were crowded with young men and women
returning from business and ragged urchins ran here and there yelling
out the names of the evening editions. The man passed through the crowd,
looking on the spectacle generally with proud satisfaction and staring
masterfully at the office-girls. His head was full of the noises of
tram-gongs and swishing trolleys and his nose already sniffed the
curling fumes of punch. As he walked on he preconsidered the terms in which
he would narrate the incident to the boys:

"So, I just looked at him--coolly, you know, and looked at her. Then I
looked back at him again--taking my time, you know. 'I don't think that
that's a fair question to put to me,' says I."

Nosey Flynn was sitting up in his usual corner of Davy Byrne's and, when
he heard the story, he stood Farrington a half-one, saying it was as
smart a thing as ever he heard. Farrington stood a drink in his turn.
After a while O'Halloran and Paddy Leonard came in and the story was
repeated to them. O'Halloran stood tailors of malt, hot, all round and
told the story of the retort he had made to the chief clerk when he was
in Callan's of Fownes's Street; but, as the retort was after the manner
of the liberal shepherds in the eclogues, he had to admit that it was
not as clever as Farrington's retort. At this Farrington told the boys
to polish off that and have another.

Just as they were naming their poisons who should come in but Higgins!
Of course he had to join in with the others. The men asked him to give
his version of it, and he did so with great vivacity for the sight of
five small hot whiskies was very exhilarating. Everyone roared
laughing when he showed the way in which Mr. Alleyne shook his fist in
Farrington's face. Then he imitated Farrington, saying, "And here was my
nabs, as cool as you please," while Farrington looked at the company out
of his heavy dirty eyes, smiling and at times drawing forth stray drops
of liquor from his moustache with the aid of his lower lip.

When that round was over there was a pause. O'Halloran had money but
neither of the other two seemed to have any; so the whole party left
the shop somewhat regretfully. At the corner of Duke Street Higgins and
Nosey Flynn bevelled off to the left while the other three turned back
towards the city. Rain was drizzling down on the cold streets and, when
they reached the Ballast Office, Farrington suggested the Scotch House.
The bar was full of men and loud with the noise of tongues and glasses.
The three men pushed past the whining match-sellers at the door and
formed a little party at the corner of the counter. They began to
exchange stories. Leonard introduced them to a young fellow named
Weathers who was performing at the Tivoli as an acrobat and knockabout
artiste. Farrington stood a drink all round. Weathers said he would take
a small Irish and Apollinaris. Farrington, who had definite notions of
what was what, asked the boys would they have an Apollinaris too;
but the boys told Tim to make theirs hot. The talk became theatrical.
O'Halloran stood a round and then Farrington stood another round,
Weathers protesting that the hospitality was too Irish. He promised to
get them in behind the scenes and introduce them to some nice girls.
O'Halloran said that he and Leonard would go, but that Farrington
wouldn't go because he was a married man; and Farrington's heavy dirty
eyes leered at the company in token that he understood he was being
chaffed. Weathers made them all have just one little tincture at his
expense and promised to meet them later on at Mulligan's in Poolbeg
Street.

When the Scotch House closed they went round to Mulligan's. They went
into the parlour at the back and O'Halloran ordered small hot specials
all round. They were all beginning to feel mellow. Farrington was just
standing another round when Weathers came back. Much to Farrington's
relief he drank a glass of bitter this time. Funds were getting low but
they had enough to keep them going. Presently two young women with big
hats and a young man in a check suit came in and sat at a table 