in which he sat. How smoothly it ran. In what style they
had come careering along the country roads! The journey laid a magical
finger on the genuine pulse of life and gallantly the machinery of human
nerves strove to answer the bounding courses of the swift blue animal.

They drove down Dame Street. The street was busy with unusual
traffic, loud with the horns of motorists and the gongs of impatient
tram-drivers. Near the Bank Segouin drew up and Jimmy and his friend
alighted. A little knot of people collected on the footpath to pay
homage to the snorting motor. The party was to dine together that
evening in Segouin's hotel and, meanwhile, Jimmy and his friend, who was
staying with him, were to go home to dress. The car steered out slowly
for Grafton Street while the two young men pushed their way through
the knot of gazers. They walked northward with a curious feeling of
disappointment in the exercise, while the city hung its pale globes of
light above them in a haze of summer evening.

In Jimmy's house this dinner had been pronounced an occasion. A certain
pride mingled with his parents' trepidation, a certain eagerness, also,
to play fast and loose for the names of great foreign cities have at
least this virtue. Jimmy, too, looked very well when he was dressed and,
as he stood in the hall giving a last equation to the bows of his dress
tie, his father may have felt even commercially satisfied at having
secured for his son qualities often unpurchaseable. His father,
therefore, was unusually friendly with Villona and his manner expressed
a real respect for foreign accomplishments; but this subtlety of his
host was probably lost upon the Hungarian, who was beginning to have a
sharp desire for his dinner.

The dinner was excellent, exquisite. Segouin, Jimmy decided, had a very
refined taste. The party was increased by a young Englishman named Routh
whom Jimmy had seen with Segouin at Cambridge. The young men supped in
a snug room lit by electric candle-lamps. They talked volubly and with
little reserve. Jimmy, whose imagination was kindling, conceived the
lively youth of the Frenchmen twined elegantly upon the firm framework
of the Englishman's manner. A graceful image of his, he thought, and a
just one. He admired the dexterity with which their host directed the
conversation. The five young men had various tastes and their tongues
had been loosened. Villona, with immense respect, began to discover to
the mildly surprised Englishman the beauties of the English madrigal,
deploring the loss of old instruments. Riviere, not wholly ingenuously,
undertook to explain to Jimmy the triumph of the French mechanicians.
The resonant voice of the Hungarian was about to prevail in ridicule of
the spurious lutes of the romantic painters when Segouin shepherded his
party into politics. Here was congenial ground for all. Jimmy, under
generous influences, felt the buried zeal of his father wake to life
within him: he aroused the torpid Routh at last. The room grew doubly
hot and Segouin's task grew harder each moment: there was even danger
of personal spite. The alert host at an opportunity lifted his glass
to Humanity and, when the toast had been drunk, he threw open a window
significantly.

That night the city wore the mask of a capital. The five young men
strolled along Stephen's Green in a faint cloud of aromatic smoke. They
talked loudly and gaily and their cloaks dangled from their shoulders.
The people made way for them. At the corner of Grafton Street a short
fat man was putting two handsome ladies on a car in charge of another
fat man. The car drove off and the short fat man caught sight of the
party.

"Andre."

"It's Farley!"

A torrent of talk followed. Farley was an American. No one knew very
well what the talk was about. Villona and Riviere were the noisiest,
but all the men were excited. They got up on a car, squeezing themselves
together amid much laughter. They drove by the crowd, blended now into
soft colours, to a music of merry bells. They took the train at Westland
Row and in a few seconds, as it seemed to Jimmy, they were walking out
of Kingstown Station. The ticket-collector saluted Jimmy; he was an old
man:

"Fine night, sir!"

It was a serene summer night; the harbour lay like a darkened mirror at
their feet. They proceeded towards it with linked arms, singing Cadet
Roussel in chorus, stamping their feet at every:

"Ho! Ho! Hohe, vraiment!"

They got into a rowboat at the slip and made out for the American's
yacht. There was to be supper, music, cards. Villona said with
conviction:

"It is delightful!"

There was a yacht piano in the cabin. Villona played a waltz for Farley
and Riviere, Farley acting as cavalier and Riviere as lady. Then
an impromptu square dance, the men devising original figures. What
merriment! Jimmy took his part with a will; this was seeing life, at
least. Then Farley got out of breath and cried "Stop!" A man brought in
a light supper, and the young men sat down to it for form's sake. They
drank, however: it was Bohemian. They drank Ireland, England, France,
Hungary, the United States of America.