h and Kitty and Zoe stampede
from the room. They talk excitedly. Bloom follows, returns.)_

THE WHORES: _(Jammed in the doorway, pointing)_ Down there.

ZOE: _(Pointing)_ There. There's something up.

BELLA: Who pays for the lamp? _(She seizes Bloom's coattail)_ Here, you
were with him. The lamp's broken.

BLOOM: _(Rushes to the hall, rushes back)_ What lamp, woman?

A WHORE: He tore his coat.

BELLA: _(Her eyes hard with anger and cupidity, points)_ Who's to pay
for that? Ten shillings. You're a witness.

BLOOM: _(Snatches up Stephen's ashplant)_ Me? Ten shillings? Haven't you
lifted enough off him? Didn't he...?

BELLA: _(Loudly)_ Here, none of your tall talk. This isn't a brothel. A
ten shilling house.

BLOOM: _(His head under the lamp, pulls the chain. Puling, the gasjet
lights up a crushed mauve purple shade. He raises the ashplant.)_ Only
the chimney's broken. Here is all he...

BELLA: _(Shrinks back and screams)_ Jesus! Don't!

BLOOM: _(Warding off a blow)_ To show you how he hit the paper. There's
not sixpenceworth of damage done. Ten shillings!

FLORRY: _(With a glass of water, enters)_ Where is he?

BELLA: Do you want me to call the police?

BLOOM: O, I know. Bulldog on the premises. But he's a Trinity student.
Patrons of your establishment. Gentlemen that pay the rent. _(He makes
a masonic sign)_ Know what I mean? Nephew of the vice-chancellor. You
don't want a scandal.

BELLA: _(Angrily)_ Trinity. Coming down here ragging after the boatraces
and paying nothing. Are you my commander here or? Where is he? I'll
charge him! Disgrace him, I will! (She Shouts) Zoe! Zoe!

BLOOM: _(Urgently)_ And if it were your own son in Oxford? _(Warningly)_
I know.

BELLA: _(Almost speechless)_ Who are. Incog!

ZOE: _(In the doorway)_ There's a row on.

BLOOM: What? Where? _(He throws a shilling on the table and starts)_
That's for the chimney. Where? I need mountain air.

_(He hurries out through the hall. The whores point. Florry follows,
spilling water from her tilted tumbler. On the doorstep all the whores
clustered talk volubly, pointing to the right where the fog has cleared
off. From the left arrives a jingling hackney car. It slows to in front
of the house. Bloom at the halldoor perceives Corny Kelleher who is
about to dismount from the car with two silent lechers. He averts
his face. Bella from within the hall urges on her whores. They blow
ickylickysticky yumyum kisses. Corny Kelleher replies with a ghastly
lewd smile. The silent lechers turn to pay the jarvey. Zoe and Kitty
still point right. Bloom, parting them swiftly, draws his caliph's hood
and poncho and hurries down the steps with sideways face. Incog Haroun
al Raschid he flits behind the silent lechers and hastens on by the
railings with fleet step of a pard strewing the drag behind him, torn
envelopes drenched in aniseed. The ashplant marks his stride. A pack
of bloodhounds, led by Hornblower of Trinity brandishing a dogwhip in
tallyho cap and an old pair of grey trousers, follow from fir, picking
up the scent, nearer, baying, panting, at fault, breaking away, throwing
their tongues, biting his heels, leaping at his tail. He walks,
runs, zigzags, gallops, lugs laid back. He is pelted with gravel,
cabbagestumps, biscuitboxes, eggs, potatoes, dead codfish, woman's
slipperslappers. After him freshfound the hue and cry zigzag gallops
in hot pursuit of follow my leader: 65 C, 66 C, night watch, John Henry
Menton, Wisdom Hely, V. B. Dillon, Councillor Nannetti, Alexander Keyes,
Larry O'rourke, Joe Cuffe Mrs O'dowd, Pisser Burke, The Nameless One,
Mrs Riordan, The Citizen, Garryowen, Whodoyoucallhim, Strangeface,
Fellowthatsolike, Sawhimbefore, Chapwithawen, Chris Callinan, Sir
Charles Cameron, Benjamin Dollard, Lenehan, Bartell d'Arcy, Joe Hynes,
red Murray, editor Brayden, T. M. Healy, Mr Justice Fitzgibbon, John
Howard Parnell, the reverend Tinned Salmon, Professor Joly, Mrs
Breen, Denis Breen, Theodore Purefoy, Mina Purefoy, the Westland
Row postmistress, C. P. M'Coy, friend of Lyons, Hoppy Holohan,
maninthestreet, othermaninthestreet, Footballboots, pugnosed driver,
rich protestant lady, Davy Byrne, Mrs Ellen M'Guinness, Mrs Joe
Gallaher, George Lidwell, Jimmy Henry on corns, Superintendent Laracy,
Father Cowley, Crofton out of the Collector-general's, Dan Dawson,
dental surgeon Bloom with tweezers, Mrs Bob Doran, Mrs Kennefick, Mrs
Wyse Nolan, John Wyse Nolan, handsomemarriedwomanrubbedagainstwide
behindinClonskeatram, the bookseller of_ Sweets of Sin, _Miss
Dubedatandshedidbedad, Mesdames Gerald and Stanislaus Moran of Roebuck,
the managing clerk of Drimmie's, Wetherup, colonel Hayes, Mastiansky,
Citron, Penrose, Aaron Figatner, Moses Herzog, Michael E Geraghty,
Inspector Troy, Mrs Galbraith, the constable off Eccles Street corner,
old doctor Brady with stethoscope, the mystery man on the beach, a
retriever, Mrs Miriam Dandrade and all her lovers.)_

THE HUE AND CRY: _(Helterskelterpelterwelter)_ He's Bloom! Stop Bloom!
Stopabloom! Stopperrobber! Hi! Hi! Stophim on the corner!

_(At the corner of Beaver Street beneath the scaffolding Bloom panting
stops on the frin