, smiling at her solemn manner.

"Who is G. C.?" answered Miss Ivors, turning her eyes upon him.

Gabriel coloured and was about to knit his brows, as if he did not
understand, when she said bluntly:

"O, innocent Amy! I have found out that you write for The Daily Express.
Now, aren't you ashamed of yourself?"

"Why should I be ashamed of myself?" asked Gabriel, blinking his eyes
and trying to smile.

"Well, I'm ashamed of you," said Miss Ivors frankly. "To say you'd write
for a paper like that. I didn't think you were a West Briton."

A look of perplexity appeared on Gabriel's face. It was true that he
wrote a literary column every Wednesday in The Daily Express, for which
he was paid fifteen shillings. But that did not make him a West Briton
surely. The books he received for review were almost more welcome than
the paltry cheque. He loved to feel the covers and turn over the pages
of newly printed books. Nearly every day when his teaching in the
college was ended he used to wander down the quays to the second-hand
booksellers, to Hickey's on Bachelor's Walk, to Web's or Massey's on
Aston's Quay, or to O'Clohissey's in the by-street. He did not know how
to meet her charge. He wanted to say that literature was above politics.
But they were friends of many years' standing and their careers had been
parallel, first at the University and then as teachers: he could not
risk a grandiose phrase with her. He continued blinking his eyes and
trying to smile and murmured lamely that he saw nothing political in
writing reviews of books.

When their turn to cross had come he was still perplexed and
inattentive. Miss Ivors promptly took his hand in a warm grasp and said
in a soft friendly tone:

"Of course, I was only joking. Come, we cross now."

When they were together again she spoke of the University question and
Gabriel felt more at ease. A friend of hers had shown her his review
of Browning's poems. That was how she had found out the secret: but she
liked the review immensely. Then she said suddenly:

"O, Mr. Conroy, will you come for an excursion to the Aran Isles this
summer? We're going to stay there a whole month. It will be splendid
out in the Atlantic. You ought to come. Mr. Clancy is coming, and Mr.
Kilkelly and Kathleen Kearney. It would be splendid for Gretta too if
she'd come. She's from Connacht, isn't she?"

"Her people are," said Gabriel shortly.

"But you will come, won't you?" said Miss Ivors, laying her warm hand
eagerly on his arm.

"The fact is," said Gabriel, "I have just arranged to go----"

"Go where?" asked Miss Ivors.

"Well, you know, every year I go for a cycling tour with some fellows
and so----"

"But where?" asked Miss Ivors.

"Well, we usually go to France or Belgium or perhaps Germany," said
Gabriel awkwardly.

"And why do you go to France and Belgium," said Miss Ivors, "instead of
visiting your own land?"

"Well," said Gabriel, "it's partly to keep in touch with the languages
and partly for a change."

"And haven't you your own language to keep in touch with--Irish?" asked
Miss Ivors.

"Well," said Gabriel, "if it comes to that, you know, Irish is not my
language."

Their neighbours had turned to listen to the cross-examination. Gabriel
glanced right and left nervously and tried to keep his good humour under
the ordeal which was making a blush invade his forehead.

"And haven't you your own land to visit," continued Miss Ivors, "that
you know nothing of, your own people, and your own country?"

"O, to tell you the truth," retorted Gabriel suddenly, "I'm sick of my
own country, sick of it!"

"Why?" asked Miss Ivors.

Gabriel did not answer for his retort had heated him.

"Why?" repeated Miss Ivors.

They had to go visiting together and, as he had not answered her, Miss
Ivors said warmly:

"Of course, you've no answer."

Gabriel tried to cover his agitation by taking part in the dance with
great energy. He avoided her eyes for he had seen a sour expression on
her face. But when they met in the long chain he was surprised to feel
his hand firmly pressed. She looked at him from under her brows for a
moment quizzically until he smiled. Then, just as the chain was about to
start again, she stood on tiptoe and whispered into his ear:

"West Briton!"

When the lancers were over Gabriel went away to a remote corner of the
room where Freddy Malins' mother was sitting. She was a stout feeble old
woman with white hair. Her voice had a catch in it like her son's and
she stuttered slightly. She had been told that Freddy had come and that
he was nearly all right. Gabriel asked her whether she had had a good
crossing. She lived with her married daughter in Glasgow and came to
Dublin on a visit once a year. She answered placidly that she had had a
beautiful crossing and that the captain had been most attentive to her.
She spoke also of the beautiful house her daughter kept in Glasgow, and
of all the friends they had there. While her tongue rambled on Gabriel
tried to banish from his mind all memory of the unpleasant incident with
Miss Ivors. Of course the girl or woman, or whatever she was, was an
enthusiast but there