 proved more effective?

Indirect suggestion implicating selfinterest.


Example?

She disliked umbrella with rain, he liked woman with umbrella, she
disliked new hat with rain, he liked woman with new hat, he bought new
hat with rain, she carried umbrella with new hat.


Accepting the analogy implied in his guest's parable which examples of
postexilic eminence did he adduce?

Three seekers of the pure truth, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides,
author of _More Nebukim_ (Guide of the Perplexed) and Moses Mendelssohn
of such eminence that from Moses (of Egypt) to Moses (Mendelssohn) there
arose none like Moses (Maimonides).


What statement was made, under correction, by Bloom concerning a fourth
seeker of pure truth, by name Aristotle, mentioned, with permission, by
Stephen?

That the seeker mentioned had been a pupil of a rabbinical philosopher,
name uncertain.


Were other anapocryphal illustrious sons of the law and children of a
selected or rejected race mentioned?

Felix Bartholdy Mendelssohn (composer), Baruch Spinoza (philosopher),
Mendoza (pugilist), Ferdinand Lassalle (reformer, duellist).


What fragments of verse from the ancient Hebrew and ancient Irish
languages were cited with modulations of voice and translation of texts
by guest to host and by host to guest?

By Stephen: _suil, suil, suil arun, suil go siocair agus suil go cuin_
(walk, walk, walk your way, walk in safety, walk with care).


By Bloom: _Kkifeloch, harimon rakatejch m'baad l'zamatejch_ (thy temple
amid thy hair is as a slice of pomegranate).


How was a glyphic comparison of the phonic symbols of both languages
made in substantiation of the oral comparison?

By juxtaposition. On the penultimate blank page of a book of inferior
literary style, entituled _Sweets of Sin_ (produced by Bloom and so
manipulated that its front cover came in contact with the surface of
the table) with a pencil (supplied by Stephen) Stephen wrote the Irish
characters for gee, eh, dee, em, simple and modified, and Bloom in turn
wrote the Hebrew characters ghimel, aleph, daleth and (in the absence of
mem) a substituted qoph, explaining their arithmetical values as ordinal
and cardinal numbers, videlicet 3, 1, 4, and 100.


Was the knowledge possessed by both of each of these languages, the
extinct and the revived, theoretical or practical?

Theoretical, being confined to certain grammatical rules of accidence
and syntax and practically excluding vocabulary.


What points of contact existed between these languages and between the
peoples who spoke them?

The presence of guttural sounds, diacritic aspirations, epenthetic and
servile letters in both languages: their antiquity, both having been
taught on the plain of Shinar 242 years after the deluge in the seminary
instituted by Fenius Farsaigh, descendant of Noah, progenitor of Israel,
and ascendant of Heber and Heremon, progenitors of Ireland: their
archaeological, genealogical, hagiographical, exegetical, homiletic,
toponomastic, historical and religious literatures comprising the works
of rabbis and culdees, Torah, Talmud (Mischna and Ghemara), Massor,
Pentateuch, Book of the Dun Cow, Book of Ballymote, Garland of Howth,
Book of Kells: their dispersal, persecution, survival and revival: the
isolation of their synagogical and ecclesiastical rites in ghetto (S.
Mary's Abbey) and masshouse (Adam and Eve's tavern): the proscription
of their national costumes in penal laws and jewish dress acts: the
restoration in Chanah David of Zion and the possibility of Irish
political autonomy or devolution.


What anthem did Bloom chant partially in anticipation of that multiple,
ethnically irreducible consummation?

     _Kolod balejwaw pnimah
     Nefesch, jehudi, homijah._


Why was the chant arrested at the conclusion of this first distich?

In consequence of defective mnemotechnic.


How did the chanter compensate for this deficiency?

By a periphrastic version of the general text.


In what common study did their mutual reflections merge?

The increasing simplification traceable from the Egyptian epigraphic
hieroglyphs to the Greek and Roman alphabets and the anticipation of
modern stenography and telegraphic code in the cuneiform inscriptions
(Semitic) and the virgular quinquecostate ogham writing (Celtic). Did
the guest comply with his host's request?

Doubly, by appending his signature in Irish and Roman characters.

What was Stephen's auditive sensation?

He heard in a profound ancient male unfamiliar melody the accumulation
of the past.


What was Bloom's visual sensation?

He saw in a quick young male familiar form the predestination of a
future.


What were Stephen's and Bloom's quasisimultaneous volitional
quasisensations of concealed identities?

Visually, Stephen's: The traditional figure of hypostasis, depicted
by Johannes Damascenus, Lentulus Romanus and Epiphanius Monachus as
leucodermic, sesquipedalian with winedark hair. Auditively, Bloom's: The
traditional accent of the ecstasy of catastrophe.


What future careers had been possible for Bloom in the past and with
what exemplars?

In the church, Roman, Anglican or Nonco