'But isn't your candidate a Nationalist?' said he. 'He's a
respectable man,' said I. 'He's in favour of whatever will benefit this
country. He's a big ratepayer,' I said. 'He has extensive house property
in the city and three places of business and isn't it to his own
advantage to keep down the rates? He's a prominent and respected
citizen,' said I, 'and a Poor Law Guardian, and he doesn't belong to any
party, good, bad, or indifferent.' That's the way to talk to 'em."

"And what about the address to the King?" said Mr. Lyons, after drinking
and smacking his lips.

"Listen to me," said Mr. Henchy. "What we want in this country, as I
said to old Ward, is capital. The King's coming here will mean an influx
of money into this country. The citizens of Dublin will benefit by it.
Look at all the factories down by the quays there, idle! Look at all the
money there is in the country if we only worked the old industries, the
mills, the ship-building yards and factories. It's capital we want."

"But look here, John," said Mr. O'Connor. "Why should we welcome the
King of England? Didn't Parnell himself..."

"Parnell," said Mr. Henchy, "is dead. Now, here's the way I look at it.
Here's this chap come to the throne after his old mother keeping him out
of it till the man was grey. He's a man of the world, and he means
well by us. He's a jolly fine decent fellow, if you ask me, and no damn
nonsense about him. He just says to himself: 'The old one never went
to see these wild Irish. By Christ, I'll go myself and see what they're
like.' And are we going to insult the man when he comes over here on a
friendly visit? Eh? Isn't that right, Crofton?"

Mr. Crofton nodded his head.

"But after all now," said Mr. Lyons argumentatively, "King Edward's
life, you know, is not the very..."

"Let bygones be bygones," said Mr. Henchy. "I admire the man personally.
He's just an ordinary knockabout like you and me. He's fond of his glass
of grog and he's a bit of a rake, perhaps, and he's a good sportsman.
Damn it, can't we Irish play fair?"

"That's all very fine," said Mr. Lyons. "But look at the case of Parnell
now."

"In the name of God," said Mr. Henchy, "where's the analogy between the
two cases?"

"What I mean," said Mr. Lyons, "is we have our ideals. Why, now, would
we welcome a man like that? Do you think now after what he did Parnell
was a fit man to lead us? And why, then, would we do it for Edward the
Seventh?"

"This is Parnell's anniversary," said Mr. O'Connor, "and don't let
us stir up any bad blood. We all respect him now that he's dead and
gone--even the Conservatives," he added, turning to Mr. Crofton.

Pok! The tardy cork flew out of Mr. Crofton's bottle. Mr. Crofton got
up from his box and went to the fire. As he returned with his capture he
said in a deep voice:

"Our side of the house respects him, because he was a gentleman."

"Right you are, Crofton!" said Mr. Henchy fiercely. "He was the only man
that could keep that bag of cats in order. 'Down, ye dogs! Lie down, ye
curs!' That's the way he treated them. Come in, Joe! Come in!" he called
out, catching sight of Mr. Hynes in the doorway.

Mr. Hynes came in slowly.

"Open another bottle of stout, Jack," said Mr. Henchy. "O, I forgot
there's no corkscrew! Here, show me one here and I'll put it at the
fire."

The old man handed him another bottle and he placed it on the hob.

"Sit down, Joe," said Mr. O'Connor, "we're just talking about the
Chief."

"Ay, ay!" said Mr. Henchy.

Mr. Hynes sat on the side of the table near Mr. Lyons but said nothing.

"There's one of them, anyhow," said Mr. Henchy, "that didn't renege him.
By God, I'll say for you, Joe! No, by God, you stuck to him like a man!"

"O, Joe," said Mr. O'Connor suddenly. "Give us that thing you wrote--do
you remember? Have you got it on you?"

"O, ay!" said Mr. Henchy. "Give us that. Did you ever hear that,
Crofton? Listen to this now: splendid thing."

"Go on," said Mr. O'Connor. "Fire away, Joe."

Mr. Hynes did not seem to remember at once the piece to which they were
alluding, but, after reflecting a while, he said:

"O, that thing is it.... Sure, that's old now."

"Out with it, man!" said Mr. O'Connor.

"'Sh, 'sh," said Mr. Henchy. "Now, Joe!"

Mr. Hynes hesitated a little longer. Then amid the silence he took off
his hat, laid it on the table and stood up. He seemed to be rehearsing
the piece in his mind. After a rather long pause he announced:


                       THE DEATH OF PARNELL
                        6th October, 1891


He cleared his throat once or twice and then began to recite:


            He is dead.  Our Uncrowned King is dead.
              O, Erin, mourn with grief and woe
            For he lies dead whom the fell gang
              Of modern hypocrites laid low.
            He lies slain by the coward hounds
              He raised to glory from the mire;
            And Erin's hopes and Erin's dreams
              Perish upon her monarch's pyre.
            In palace, cabin or in cot
              The Irish heart where'er it be
            Is bowed with woe--for he is gone
              Who would 