s strong cigar had confused
his mind, for he was a delicate and abstinent person. The adventure of
meeting Gallaher after eight years, of finding himself with Gallaher
in Corless's surrounded by lights and noise, of listening to Gallaher's
stories and of sharing for a brief space Gallaher's vagrant and
triumphant life, upset the equipoise of his sensitive nature. He felt
acutely the contrast between his own life and his friend's and it seemed
to him unjust. Gallaher was his inferior in birth and education. He was
sure that he could do something better than his friend had ever done, or
could ever do, something higher than mere tawdry journalism if he only
got the chance. What was it that stood in his way? His unfortunate
timidity! He wished to vindicate himself in some way, to assert his
manhood. He saw behind Gallaher's refusal of his invitation. Gallaher
was only patronising him by his friendliness just as he was patronising
Ireland by his visit.

The barman brought their drinks. Little Chandler pushed one glass
towards his friend and took up the other boldly.

"Who knows?" he said, as they lifted their glasses. "When you come next
year I may have the pleasure of wishing long life and happiness to Mr.
and Mrs. Ignatius Gallaher."

Ignatius Gallaher in the act of drinking closed one eye expressively
over the rim of his glass. When he had drunk he smacked his lips
decisively, set down his glass and said:

"No blooming fear of that, my boy. I'm going to have my fling first and
see a bit of life and the world before I put my head in the sack--if I
ever do."

"Some day you will," said Little Chandler calmly.

Ignatius Gallaher turned his orange tie and slate-blue eyes full upon
his friend.

"You think so?" he said.

"You'll put your head in the sack," repeated Little Chandler stoutly,
"like everyone else if you can find the girl."

He had slightly emphasised his tone and he was aware that he had
betrayed himself; but, though the colour had heightened in his cheek, he
did not flinch from his friend's gaze. Ignatius Gallaher watched him for
a few moments and then said:

"If ever it occurs, you may bet your bottom dollar there'll be no
mooning and spooning about it. I mean to marry money. She'll have a good
fat account at the bank or she won't do for me."

Little Chandler shook his head.

"Why, man alive," said Ignatius Gallaher, vehemently, "do you know what
it is? I've only to say the word and tomorrow I can have the woman
and the cash. You don't believe it? Well, I know it. There are
hundreds--what am I saying?--thousands of rich Germans and Jews, rotten
with money, that'd only be too glad.... You wait a while my boy. See if
I don't play my cards properly. When I go about a thing I mean business,
I tell you. You just wait."

He tossed his glass to his mouth, finished his drink and laughed loudly.
Then he looked thoughtfully before him and said in a calmer tone:

"But I'm in no hurry. They can wait. I don't fancy tying myself up to
one woman, you know."

He imitated with his mouth the act of tasting and made a wry face.

"Must get a bit stale, I should think," he said.

 * * * * *
 
Little Chandler sat in the room off the hall, holding a child in his
arms. To save money they kept no servant but Annie's young sister Monica
came for an hour or so in the morning and an hour or so in the evening
to help. But Monica had gone home long ago. It was a quarter to nine.
Little Chandler had come home late for tea and, moreover, he had
forgotten to bring Annie home the parcel of coffee from Bewley's. Of
course she was in a bad humour and gave him short answers. She said she
would do without any tea but when it came near the time at which the
shop at the corner closed she decided to go out herself for a quarter
of a pound of tea and two pounds of sugar. She put the sleeping child
deftly in his arms and said:

"Here. Don't waken him."

A little lamp with a white china shade stood upon the table and its
light fell over a photograph which was enclosed in a frame of crumpled
horn. It was Annie's photograph. Little Chandler looked at it, pausing
at the thin tight lips. She wore the pale blue summer blouse which he
had brought her home as a present one Saturday. It had cost him ten and
elevenpence; but what an agony of nervousness it had cost him! How
he had suffered that day, waiting at the shop door until the shop was
empty, standing at the counter and trying to appear at his ease while
the girl piled ladies' blouses before him, paying at the desk and
forgetting to take up the odd penny of his change, being called back by
the cashier, and finally, striving to hide his blushes as he left the
shop by examining the parcel to see if it was securely tied. When he
brought the blouse home Annie kissed him and said it was very pretty and
stylish; but when she heard the price she threw the blouse on the table
and said it was a regular swindle to charge ten and elevenpence for it.
At first she wanted to take it back but when she tried it on she was
delighted with it, especially with the make of the sleeves, and kissed
him and said he was very good to think