es were greatly agitated because he was
afraid the audience would think that he had come late.

Mr. Holohan and Mr. O'Madden Burke came into the room. In a moment Mr.
Holohan perceived the hush. He went over to Mrs. Kearney and spoke
with her earnestly. While they were speaking the noise in the hall grew
louder. Mr. Holohan became very red and excited. He spoke volubly, but
Mrs. Kearney said curtly at intervals:

"She won't go on. She must get her eight guineas."

Mr. Holohan pointed desperately towards the hall where the audience was
clapping and stamping. He appealed to Mr Kearney and to Kathleen. But
Mr. Kearney continued to stroke his beard and Kathleen looked down,
moving the point of her new shoe: it was not her fault. Mrs. Kearney
repeated:

"She won't go on without her money."

After a swift struggle of tongues Mr. Holohan hobbled out in haste.
The room was silent. When the strain of the silence had become somewhat
painful Miss Healy said to the baritone:

"Have you seen Mrs. Pat Campbell this week?"

The baritone had not seen her but he had been told that she was very
fine. The conversation went no further. The first tenor bent his head
and began to count the links of the gold chain which was extended across
his waist, smiling and humming random notes to observe the effect on the
frontal sinus. From time to time everyone glanced at Mrs. Kearney.

The noise in the auditorium had risen to a clamour when Mr. Fitzpatrick
burst into the room, followed by Mr. Holohan, who was panting. The
clapping and stamping in the hall were punctuated by whistling. Mr.
Fitzpatrick held a few banknotes in his hand. He counted out four
into Mrs. Kearney's hand and said she would get the other half at the
interval. Mrs. Kearney said:

"This is four shillings short."

But Kathleen gathered in her skirt and said: "Now, Mr. Bell," to
the first item, who was shaking like an aspen. The singer and the
accompanist went out together. The noise in hall died away. There was a
pause of a few seconds: and then the piano was heard.

The first part of the concert was very successful except for Madam
Glynn's item. The poor lady sang Killarney in a bodiless gasping voice,
with all the old-fashioned mannerisms of intonation and pronunciation
which she believed lent elegance to her singing. She looked as if she
had been resurrected from an old stage-wardrobe and the cheaper parts
of the hall made fun of her high wailing notes. The first tenor and the
contralto, however, brought down the house. Kathleen played a selection
of Irish airs which was generously applauded. The first part closed with
a stirring patriotic recitation delivered by a young lady who arranged
amateur theatricals. It was deservedly applauded; and, when it was
ended, the men went out for the interval, content.

All this time the dressing-room was a hive of excitement. In one corner
were Mr. Holohan, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Miss Beirne, two of the stewards, the
baritone, the bass, and Mr. O'Madden Burke. Mr. O'Madden Burke said it
was the most scandalous exhibition he had ever witnessed. Miss Kathleen
Kearney's musical career was ended in Dublin after that, he said. The
baritone was asked what did he think of Mrs. Kearney's conduct. He did
not like to say anything. He had been paid his money and wished to be at
peace with men. However, he said that Mrs. Kearney might have taken the
artistes into consideration. The stewards and the secretaries debated
hotly as to what should be done when the interval came.

"I agree with Miss Beirne," said Mr. O'Madden Burke. "Pay her nothing."

In another corner of the room were Mrs. Kearney and her husband, Mr.
Bell, Miss Healy and the young lady who had to recite the patriotic
piece. Mrs. Kearney said that the Committee had treated her
scandalously. She had spared neither trouble nor expense and this was
how she was repaid.

They thought they had only a girl to deal with and that, therefore, they
could ride roughshod over her. But she would show them their mistake.
They wouldn't have dared to have treated her like that if she had been a
man. But she would see that her daughter got her rights: she wouldn't
be fooled. If they didn't pay her to the last farthing she would make
Dublin ring. Of course she was sorry for the sake of the artistes. But
what else could she do? She appealed to the second tenor who said he
thought she had not been well treated. Then she appealed to Miss Healy.
Miss Healy wanted to join the other group but she did not like to do so
because she was a great friend of Kathleen's and the Kearneys had often
invited her to their house.

As soon as the first part was ended Mr. Fitzpatrick and Mr. Holohan went
over to Mrs. Kearney and told her that the other four guineas would be
paid after the Committee meeting on the following Tuesday and that, in
case her daughter did not play for the second part, the Committee would
consider the contract broken and would pay nothing.

"I haven't seen any Committee," said Mrs. Kearney angrily. "My daughter
has her contract. She will get four pounds eight into her hand or a foot
she won't put on that platform."

