re. Julia, though she was quite grey, was still the leading
soprano in Adam and Eve's, and Kate, being too feeble to go about much,
gave music lessons to beginners on the old square piano in the back
room. Lily, the caretaker's daughter, did housemaid's work for them.
Though their life was modest, they believed in eating well; the best
of everything: diamond-bone sirloins, three-shilling tea and the best
bottled stout. But Lily seldom made a mistake in the orders, so that she
got on well with her three mistresses. They were fussy, that was all.
But the only thing they would not stand was back answers.

Of course, they had good reason to be fussy on such a night. And then it
was long after ten o'clock and yet there was no sign of Gabriel and his
wife. Besides they were dreadfully afraid that Freddy Malins might
turn up screwed. They would not wish for worlds that any of Mary Jane's
pupils should see him under the influence; and when he was like that it
was sometimes very hard to manage him. Freddy Malins always came late,
but they wondered what could be keeping Gabriel: and that was what
brought them every two minutes to the banisters to ask Lily had Gabriel
or Freddy come.

"O, Mr. Conroy," said Lily to Gabriel when she opened the door for him,
"Miss Kate and Miss Julia thought you were never coming. Good-night,
Mrs. Conroy."

"I'll engage they did," said Gabriel, "but they forget that my wife here
takes three mortal hours to dress herself."

He stood on the mat, scraping the snow from his goloshes, while Lily led
his wife to the foot of the stairs and called out:

"Miss Kate, here's Mrs. Conroy."

Kate and Julia came toddling down the dark stairs at once. Both of them
kissed Gabriel's wife, said she must be perished alive, and asked was
Gabriel with her.

"Here I am as right as the mail, Aunt Kate! Go on up. I'll follow,"
called out Gabriel from the dark.

He continued scraping his feet vigorously while the three women went
upstairs, laughing, to the ladies' dressing-room. A light fringe of snow
lay like a cape on the shoulders of his overcoat and like toecaps on the
toes of his goloshes; and, as the buttons of his overcoat slipped with a
squeaking noise through the snow-stiffened frieze, a cold, fragrant air
from out-of-doors escaped from crevices and folds.

"Is it snowing again, Mr. Conroy?" asked Lily.

She had preceded him into the pantry to help him off with his overcoat.
Gabriel smiled at the three syllables she had given his surname and
glanced at her. She was a slim, growing girl, pale in complexion and
with hay-coloured hair. The gas in the pantry made her look still paler.
Gabriel had known her when she was a child and used to sit on the lowest
step nursing a rag doll.

"Yes, Lily," he answered, "and I think we're in for a night of it."

He looked up at the pantry ceiling, which was shaking with the stamping
and shuffling of feet on the floor above, listened for a moment to
the piano and then glanced at the girl, who was folding his overcoat
carefully at the end of a shelf.

"Tell me. Lily," he said in a friendly tone, "do you still go to
school?"

"O no, sir," she answered. "I'm done schooling this year and more."

"O, then," said Gabriel gaily, "I suppose we'll be going to your wedding
one of these fine days with your young man, eh?"

The girl glanced back at him over her shoulder and said with great
bitterness:

"The men that is now is only all palaver and what they can get out of
you."

Gabriel coloured, as if he felt he had made a mistake and, without
looking at her, kicked off his goloshes and flicked actively with his
muffler at his patent-leather shoes.

He was a stout, tallish young man. The high colour of his cheeks
pushed upwards even to his forehead, where it scattered itself in a
few formless patches of pale red; and on his hairless face there
scintillated restlessly the polished lenses and the bright gilt rims of
the glasses which screened his delicate and restless eyes. His glossy
black hair was parted in the middle and brushed in a long curve behind
his ears where it curled slightly beneath the groove left by his hat.

When he had flicked lustre into his shoes he stood up and pulled his
waistcoat down more tightly on his plump body. Then he took a coin
rapidly from his pocket.

"O Lily," he said, thrusting it into her hands, "it's Christmastime,
isn't it? Just... here's a little...."

He walked rapidly towards the door.

"O no, sir!" cried the girl, following him. "Really, sir, I wouldn't
take it."

"Christmas-time! Christmas-time!" said Gabriel, almost trotting to the
stairs and waving his hand to her in deprecation.

The girl, seeing that he had gained the stairs, called out after him:

"Well, thank you, sir."

He waited outside the drawing-room door until the waltz should finish,
listening to the skirts that swept against it and to the shuffling of
feet. He was still discomposed by the girl's bitter and sudden retort.
It had cast a gloom over him which he tried to dispel by arranging his
cuffs and the bows of his tie. He then took from his waistcoat pocket a
little paper and glanced at the head