nd of the table and at the other end, on
a bed of creased paper strewn with sprigs of parsley, lay a great ham,
stripped of its outer skin and peppered over with crust crumbs, a neat
paper frill round its shin and beside this was a round of spiced beef.
Between these rival ends ran parallel lines of side-dishes: two little
minsters of jelly, red and yellow; a shallow dish full of blocks
of blancmange and red jam, a large green leaf-shaped dish with a
stalk-shaped handle, on which lay bunches of purple raisins and peeled
almonds, a companion dish on which lay a solid rectangle of Smyrna
figs, a dish of custard topped with grated nutmeg, a small bowl full of
chocolates and sweets wrapped in gold and silver papers and a glass vase
in which stood some tall celery stalks. In the centre of the table there
stood, as sentries to a fruit-stand which upheld a pyramid of oranges
and American apples, two squat old-fashioned decanters of cut glass, one
containing port and the other dark sherry. On the closed square piano
a pudding in a huge yellow dish lay in waiting and behind it were three
squads of bottles of stout and ale and minerals, drawn up according to
the colours of their uniforms, the first two black, with brown and
red labels, the third and smallest squad white, with transverse green
sashes.

Gabriel took his seat boldly at the head of the table and, having looked
to the edge of the carver, plunged his fork firmly into the goose. He
felt quite at ease now for he was an expert carver and liked nothing
better than to find himself at the head of a well-laden table.

"Miss Furlong, what shall I send you?" he asked. "A wing or a slice of
the breast?"

"Just a small slice of the breast."

"Miss Higgins, what for you?"

"O, anything at all, Mr. Conroy."

While Gabriel and Miss Daly exchanged plates of goose and plates of ham
and spiced beef Lily went from guest to guest with a dish of hot floury
potatoes wrapped in a white napkin. This was Mary Jane's idea and she
had also suggested apple sauce for the goose but Aunt Kate had said that
plain roast goose without any apple sauce had always been good enough
for her and she hoped she might never eat worse. Mary Jane waited on
her pupils and saw that they got the best slices and Aunt Kate and Aunt
Julia opened and carried across from the piano bottles of stout and ale
for the gentlemen and bottles of minerals for the ladies. There was a
great deal of confusion and laughter and noise, the noise of orders
and counter-orders, of knives and forks, of corks and glass-stoppers.
Gabriel began to carve second helpings as soon as he had finished the
first round without serving himself. Everyone protested loudly so that
he compromised by taking a long draught of stout for he had found the
carving hot work. Mary Jane settled down quietly to her supper but Aunt
Kate and Aunt Julia were still toddling round the table, walking on
each other's heels, getting in each other's way and giving each other
unheeded orders. Mr. Browne begged of them to sit down and eat their
suppers and so did Gabriel but they said there was time enough, so that,
at last, Freddy Malins stood up and, capturing Aunt Kate, plumped her
down on her chair amid general laughter.

When everyone had been well served Gabriel said, smiling:

"Now, if anyone wants a little more of what vulgar people call stuffing
let him or her speak."

A chorus of voices invited him to begin his own supper and Lily came
forward with three potatoes which she had reserved for him.

"Very well," said Gabriel amiably, as he took another preparatory
draught, "kindly forget my existence, ladies and gentlemen, for a few
minutes."

He set to his supper and took no part in the conversation with which the
table covered Lily's removal of the plates. The subject of talk was the
opera company which was then at the Theatre Royal. Mr. Bartell D'Arcy,
the tenor, a dark-complexioned young man with a smart moustache, praised
very highly the leading contralto of the company but Miss Furlong
thought she had a rather vulgar style of production. Freddy Malins said
there was a Negro chieftain singing in the second part of the Gaiety
pantomime who had one of the finest tenor voices he had ever heard.

"Have you heard him?" he asked Mr. Bartell D'Arcy across the table.

"No," answered Mr. Bartell D'Arcy carelessly.

"Because," Freddy Malins explained, "now I'd be curious to hear your
opinion of him. I think he has a grand voice."

"It takes Teddy to find out the really good things," said Mr. Browne
familiarly to the table.

"And why couldn't he have a voice too?" asked Freddy Malins sharply. "Is
it because he's only a black?"

Nobody answered this question and Mary Jane led the table back to the
legitimate opera. One of her pupils had given her a pass for Mignon.
Of course it was very fine, she said, but it made her think of poor
Georgina Burns. Mr. Browne could go back farther still, to the old
Italian companies that used to come to Dublin--Tietjens, Ilma de Murzka,
Campanini, the great Trebelli, Giuglini, Ravelli, Aramburo. Those were
the days, he said, when there was somethin