 liniment composed of 2 parts of aconite liniment
to I of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10.20 a.m. on the
morning of 27 June 1886 at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17
Church street, Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of having,
purchased at 3.15 p.m. on the afternoon of 27 June 1886 a new boater
straw hat, extra smart (after having, though not in consequence of
having, purchased at the hour and in the place aforesaid, the toxin
aforesaid), at the general drapery store of James Cullen, 4 Main street,
Ennis.


Did he attribute this homonymity to information or coincidence or
intuition?

Coincidence.


Did he depict the scene verbally for his guest to see?

He preferred himself to see another's face and listen to another's
words by which potential narration was realised and kinetic temperament
relieved.


Did he see only a second coincidence in the second scene narrated to
him, described by the narrator as _A Pisgah Sight of Palestine or The
Parable of the Plums_?

It, with the preceding scene and with others unnarrated but existent by
implication, to which add essays on various subjects or moral apothegms
(e.g. _My Favourite Hero or Procrastination is the Thief of Time_)
composed during schoolyears, seemed to him to contain in itself and
in conjunction with the personal equation certain possibilities of
financial, social, personal and sexual success, whether specially
collected and selected as model pedagogic themes (of cent per cent
merit) for the use of preparatory and junior grade students or
contributed in printed form, following the precedent of Philip Beaufoy
or Doctor Dick or Heblon's _Studies in Blue_, to a publication of
certified circulation and solvency or employed verbally as intellectual
stimulation for sympathetic auditors, tacitly appreciative of successful
narrative and confidently augurative of successful achievement, during
the increasingly longer nights gradually following the summer solstice
on the day but three following, videlicet, Tuesday, 21 June (S. Aloysius
Gonzaga), sunrise 3.33 a.m., sunset 8.29 p.m.


Which domestic problem as much as, if not more than, any other
frequently engaged his mind?

What to do with our wives.


What had been his hypothetical singular solutions?

Parlour games (dominos, halma, tiddledywinks, spilikins, cup and ball,
nap, spoil five, bezique, twentyfive, beggar my neighbour, draughts,
chess or backgammon): embroidery, darning or knitting for the
policeaided clothing society: musical duets, mandoline and guitar, piano
and flute, guitar and piano: legal scrivenery or envelope addressing:
biweekly visits to variety entertainments: commercial activity as
pleasantly commanding and pleasingly obeyed mistress proprietress in
a cool dairy shop or warm cigar divan: the clandestine satisfaction of
erotic irritation in masculine brothels, state inspected and medically
controlled: social visits, at regular infrequent prevented intervals
and with regular frequent preventive superintendence, to and from female
acquaintances of recognised respectability in the vicinity: courses of
evening instruction specially designed to render liberal instruction
agreeable.


What instances of deficient mental development in his wife inclined him
in favour of the lastmentioned (ninth) solution?

In disoccupied moments she had more than once covered a sheet of paper
with signs and hieroglyphics which she stated were Greek and Irish and
Hebrew characters. She had interrogated constantly at varying intervals
as to the correct method of writing the capital initial of the name of
a city in Canada, Quebec. She understood little of political
complications, internal, or balance of power, external. In calculating
the addenda of bills she frequently had recourse to digital aid.
After completion of laconic epistolary compositions she abandoned
the implement of calligraphy in the encaustic pigment, exposed to
the corrosive action of copperas, green vitriol and nutgall. Unusual
polysyllables of foreign origin she interpreted phonetically or by false
analogy or by both: metempsychosis (met him pike hoses), _alias_ (a
mendacious person mentioned in sacred scripture).


What compensated in the false balance of her intelligence for these and
such deficiencies of judgment regarding persons, places and things?

The false apparent parallelism of all perpendicular arms of all
balances, proved true by construction. The counterbalance of her
proficiency of judgment regarding one person, proved true by experiment.


How had he attempted to remedy this state of comparative ignorance?

Variously. By leaving in a conspicuous place a certain book open at a
certain page: by assuming in her, when alluding explanatorily, latent
knowledge: by open ridicule in her presence of some absent other's
ignorant lapse.


With what success had he attempted direct instruction?

She followed not all, a part of the whole, gave attention with interest
comprehended with surprise, with care repeated, with greater difficulty
remembered, forgot with ease, with misgiving reremembered, rerepeated
with error.


What system had