hem as it
uttered the word of belief and submission. When Mrs. Kernan came into
the room, drying her hands she came into a solemn company. She did not
disturb the silence, but leaned over the rail at the foot of the bed.

"I once saw John MacHale," said Mr. Kernan, "and I'll never forget it as
long as I live."

He turned towards his wife to be confirmed.

"I often told you that?"

Mrs. Kernan nodded.

"It was at the unveiling of Sir John Gray's statue. Edmund Dwyer
Gray was speaking, blathering away, and here was this old fellow,
crabbed-looking old chap, looking at him from under his bushy eyebrows."

Mr. Kernan knitted his brows and, lowering his head like an angry bull,
glared at his wife.

"God!" he exclaimed, resuming his natural face, "I never saw such an eye
in a man's head. It was as much as to say: I have you properly taped, my
lad. He had an eye like a hawk."

"None of the Grays was any good," said Mr. Power.

There was a pause again. Mr. Power turned to Mrs. Kernan and said with
abrupt joviality:

"Well, Mrs. Kernan, we're going to make your man here a good holy pious
and God-fearing Roman Catholic."

He swept his arm round the company inclusively.

"We're all going to make a retreat together and confess our sins--and
God knows we want it badly."

"I don't mind," said Mr. Kernan, smiling a little nervously.

Mrs. Kernan thought it would be wiser to conceal her satisfaction. So
she said:

"I pity the poor priest that has to listen to your tale."

Mr. Kernan's expression changed.

"If he doesn't like it," he said bluntly, "he can... do the other thing.
I'll just tell him my little tale of woe. I'm not such a bad fellow----"

Mr. Cunningham intervened promptly.

"We'll all renounce the devil," he said, "together, not forgetting his
works and pomps."

"Get behind me, Satan!" said Mr. Fogarty, laughing and looking at the
others.

Mr. Power said nothing. He felt completely out-generalled. But a pleased
expression flickered across his face.

"All we have to do," said Mr. Cunningham, "is to stand up with lighted
candles in our hands and renew our baptismal vows."

"O, don't forget the candle, Tom," said Mr. M'Coy, "whatever you do."

"What?" said Mr. Kernan. "Must I have a candle?"

"O yes," said Mr. Cunningham.

"No, damn it all," said Mr. Kernan sensibly, "I draw the line there.
I'll do the job right enough. I'll do the retreat business and
confession, and... all that business. But... no candles! No, damn it
all, I bar the candles!"

He shook his head with farcical gravity.

"Listen to that!" said his wife.

"I bar the candles," said Mr. Kernan, conscious of having created an
effect on his audience and continuing to shake his head to and fro. "I
bar the magic-lantern business."

Everyone laughed heartily.

"There's a nice Catholic for you!" said his wife.

"No candles!" repeated Mr. Kernan obdurately. "That's off!"


The transept of the Jesuit Church in Gardiner Street was almost full;
and still at every moment gentlemen entered from the side door and,
directed by the lay-brother, walked on tiptoe along the aisles until
they found seating accommodation. The gentlemen were all well dressed
and orderly. The light of the lamps of the church fell upon an assembly
of black clothes and white collars, relieved here and there by tweeds,
on dark mottled pillars of green marble and on lugubrious canvases. The
gentlemen sat in the benches, having hitched their trousers slightly
above their knees and laid their hats in security. They sat well back
and gazed formally at the distant speck of red light which was suspended
before the high altar.

In one of the benches near the pulpit sat Mr. Cunningham and Mr. Kernan.
In the bench behind sat Mr. M'Coy alone: and in the bench behind him sat
Mr. Power and Mr. Fogarty. Mr. M'Coy had tried unsuccessfully to find a
place in the bench with the others, and, when the party had settled down
in the form of a quincunx, he had tried unsuccessfully to make comic
remarks. As these had not been well received, he had desisted. Even he
was sensible of the decorous atmosphere and even he began to respond to
the religious stimulus. In a whisper, Mr. Cunningham drew Mr. Kernan's
attention to Mr. Harford, the moneylender, who sat some distance off,
and to Mr. Fanning, the registration agent and mayor maker of the city,
who was sitting immediately under the pulpit beside one of the newly
elected councillors of the ward. To the right sat old Michael Grimes,
the owner of three pawnbroker's shops, and Dan Hogan's nephew, who was
up for the job in the Town Clerk's office. Farther in front sat
Mr. Hendrick, the chief reporter of The Freeman's Journal, and poor
O'Carroll, an old friend of Mr. Kernan's, who had been at one time a
considerable commercial figure. Gradually, as he recognised familiar
faces, Mr. Kernan began to feel more at home. His hat, which had been
rehabilitated by his wife, rested upon his knees. Once or twice he
pulled down his cuffs with one hand while he held the brim of his hat
lightly, but firmly, with the other hand.

A powerful-looking figure, the upper part of which was draped with
a whi