  Radiant palace--reared its head.
               In the monarch Thought's dominion--
                 It stood there!
               Never seraph spread a pinion
                 Over fabric half so fair.


                           II.

               Banners yellow, glorious, golden,
                 On its roof did float and flow;
               (This--all this--was in the olden
                 Time long ago)
               And every gentle air that dallied,
                 In that sweet day,
               Along the ramparts plumed and pallid,
                 A winged odour went away.


                           III.

               Wanderers in that happy valley
                 Through two luminous windows saw
               Spirits moving musically
                 To a lute's well tuned law,
               Round about a throne, where sitting
                 (Porphyrogene!)
               In state his glory well befitting,
                 The ruler of the realm was seen.


                           IV.

               And all with pearl and ruby glowing
                 Was the fair palace door,
               Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing
                 And sparkling evermore,
               A troop of Echoes whose sweet duty
                 Was but to sing,
               In voices of surpassing beauty,
                 The wit and wisdom of their king.


                            V.

               But evil things, in robes of sorrow,
                 Assailed the monarch's high estate;
               (Ah, let us mourn, for never morrow
                 Shall dawn upon him, desolate!)
               And, round about his home, the glory
                 That blushed and bloomed
               Is but a dim-remembered story,
                 Of the old time entombed.


                           VI.

               And travellers now within that valley,
                 Through the red-litten windows, see
               Vast forms that move fantastically
                 To a discordant melody;
               While, like a rapid ghastly river,
                 Through the pale door,
               A hideous throng rush out forever,
                 And laugh--but smile no more.


I well remember that suggestions arising from this ballad,
led us into a train of thought wherein there became manifest an
opinion of Usher's which I mention not so much on account of its
novelty (for other men* have thought thus,) as on account of the
pertinacity with which he maintained it.  This opinion, in its
general form, was that of the sentience of all vegetable things.
But, in his disordered fancy, the idea had assumed a more daring
character, and trespassed, under certain conditions, upon the
kingdom of inorganization.  I lack words to express the full
extent, or the earnest abandon of his persuasion.  The
belief, however, was connected (as I have previously hinted) with
the gray stones of the home of his forefathers.  The conditions
of the sentience had been here, he imagined, fulfilled in the
method of collocation of these stones--in the order of their
arrangement, as well as in that of the many fungi which
overspread them, and of the decayed trees which stood around--above
all, in the long undisturbed endurance of this arrangement,
and in its reduplication in the still waters of the tarn.  Its
evidence--the evidence of the sentience--was to be seen, he said,
(and I here started as he spoke,) in the gradual yet certain
condensation of an atmosphere of their own about the waters and
the walls.  The result was discoverable, he added, in that
silent, yet importunate and terrible influence which for
centuries had moulded the destinies of his family, and which made
him what I now saw him--what he was.  Such opinions need no
comment, and I will make none.

Our books--the books which, for years, had formed no small
portion of the mental existence of the invalid--were, as might be
supposed, in strict keeping with this character of phantasm.  We
pored together over such works as the Ververt et Chartreuse
of Gresset; the Belphegor of Machiavelli; the Heaven and
Hell of Swedenborg; the Subterranean Voyage of Nicholas Klimm by
Holberg; the Chiromancy of Robert Flud, of Jean D'Indagine,
and of De la Chambre; the Journey into the Blue Distance of
Tieck; and the City of the Sun by Campanella.  One favourite
volume was a small octavo edition of the Directorium
Inquisitorum, by the Dominican Eymeric de Gironne; and there
were passages in Pomponius Mela, about the old African Satyrs
and OEgipans, over which Usher would sit dreaming for hours.  His
chief delight, however, was found in the perusal of an
exceedingly rare and curious book in quarto Gothic--the manual of
a forgotten church--the Vigiliae Mortuorum Secundum Chorum Ecclesiae
Maguntinae.

I could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work,
and of its probable influence upon the hypochondriac, when, one
evening, having informed me abruptly that the lady Madeline was
no more, he stated his intention of preserving her corpse for a
fortnight, (previously to i