 childish
experiment--that of looking down within the tarn--had been to
deepen the first singular impression.  There can be no doubt that
the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition--for
why should I not so term it?--served mainly to accelerate the
increase itself.  Such, I have long known, is the paradoxical law
of all sentiments having terror as a basis.  And it might have
been for this reason only, that, when I again uplifted my eyes to
the house itself, from its image in the pool, there grew in my
mind a strange fancy--a fancy so ridiculous, indeed, that I but
mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which
oppressed me.  I had so worked upon my imagination as really to
believe that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an
atmosphere peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity--an
atmosphere which had no affinity with the air of heaven, but
which had reeked up from the decayed trees, and the grey wall,
and the silent tarn--a pestilent and mystic vapour, dull,
sluggish, faintly discernible, and leaden-hued.

Shaking off from my spirit what must have been a dream,
I scanned more narrowly the real aspect of the building.  Its
principal feature seemed to be that of an excessive antiquity.
The discoloration of ages had been great.  Minute fungi
overspread the whole exterior, hanging in a fine tangled web-work
from the eaves.  Yet all this was apart from any extraordinary
dilapidation.  No portion of the masonry had fallen; and there
appeared to be a wild inconsistency between its still perfect
adaptation of parts, and the crumbling condition of the
individual stones.  In this there was much that reminded me of
the specious totality of old wood-work which has rotted for long
years in some neglected vault, with no disturbance from the
breath of the external air.  Beyond  this indication of
extensive decay, however, the fabric gave little token of
instability.  Perhaps the eye of a scrutinizing observer might
have discovered a barely perceptible fissure, which, extending
from the roof of the building in front, made its way down the
wall in a zigzag direction, until it became lost in the sullen
waters of the tarn.

Noticing these things, I rode over a short causeway to the
house.  A servant in waiting took my horse, and I entered the
Gothic archway of the hall.  A valet, of stealthy step, thence
conducted me, in silence, through many dark and intricate
passages in my progress to the studio of his master.  Much
that I encountered on the way contributed, I know not how, to
heighten the vague sentiments of which I have already spoken.
While the objects around me--while the carvings of the ceilings,
the sombre tapestries of the walls, the ebon blackness of the
floors, and the phantasmagoric armorial trophies which rattled as
I strode, were but matters to which, or to such as which, I had
been accustomed from my infancy--while I hesitated not to
acknowledge how familiar was all this--I still wondered to find
how unfamiliar were the fancies which ordinary images were
stirring up.  On one of the staircases, I met the physician of
the family.  His countenance, I thought, wore a mingled
expression of low cunning and perplexity.  He accosted me with
trepidation and passed on.  The valet now threw open a door and
ushered me into the presence of his master.

The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty.
The windows were long, narrow, and pointed, and at so vast a
distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible
from within.  Feeble gleams of encrimsoned light made their way
through the trellised panes, and served to render sufficiently
distinct the more prominent objects around; the eye, however,
struggled in vain to reach the remoter angles of the chamber, or
the recesses of the vaulted and fretted ceiling.  Dark draperies
hung upon the walls.  The general furniture was profuse,
comfortless, antique, and tattered.  Many books and musical
instruments lay scattered about, but failed to give any vitality
to the scene.  I felt that I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow.
An air of stern, deep, and irredeemable gloom hung over and
pervaded all.

Upon my entrance, Usher rose from a sofa on which he had
been lying at full length, and greeted me with a vivacious warmth
which had much in it, I at first thought, of an overdone
cordiality--of the constrained effort of the ennuye man of
the world.  A glance, however, at his countenance, convinced me
of his perfect sincerity.  We sat down; and for some moments,
while he spoke not, I gazed upon him with a feeling half of pity,
half of awe.  Surely, man had never before so terribly altered,
in so brief a period, as had Roderick Usher!  It was with
difficulty that I could bring myself to admit the identity of the
wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood.  Yet
the character of his face had been at all times remarkable.  A
cadaverousness of complexion; an eye large, liquid, and luminous
beyond comparison; lips somewhat thin and very pallid, but of a
surpassingly beautiful curve; a nose of a delicate Hebrew model,
but wit