t I knew him very well. I bid my man tell him I was
busy, and he could not speak to me; and not to let him leave his
oranges. I know no more of it, but I am sure I never heard the name, and
I shall take no such presents from strangers. Perhaps he might be only
some beggar, who wanted a little money. Perhaps it might be something
worse. Let them keep their poison for their rats. I don't love it.(23)
That blot is a blunder. Nite dee MD....

20. A Committee of our Society dined to-day with the Chancellor of
the Exchequer. Our Society does not meet now as usual, for which I
am blamed: but till Lord Treasurer will agree to give us money and
employments to bestow, I am averse to it; and he gives us nothing but
promises. The Bishop of Dromore is still alive, and that is all. We
expect every day he will die, and then Tom Leigh must go back, which is
one good thing to the town. I believe Pratt will drive at one of these
bishoprics. Our English bishopric(24) is not yet disposed of. I believe
the peace will not be ready by the session. Nite MD.

21. I was to-day with my printer, to give him a little pamphlet I have
written, but not politics. It will be out by Monday. If it succeeds, I
will tell you of it; otherwise, not. We had a prodigious thaw to-day,
as bad as rain; yet I walked like a good boy all the way. The Bishop of
Dromore still draws breath, but cannot live two days longer. My large
book lies flat. Some people think a great part of it ought not to be now
printed. I believe I told you so before. This letter shall not go till
Saturday, which makes up the three weeks exactly; and I allow MD six
weeks, which are now almost out; so oo must know I expect a rettle vely
soon, and that MD is vely werr;(25) and so nite, dee MD.

22. This is one of our Court days, and I was there. I told you there
is a Drawing-room, Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday. The Hamiltons and
Abercorns have done teasing me. The latter, I hear, is actually going to
France. Lord Treasurer quarrelled with me at Court for being four days
without dining with him; so I dined there to-day, and he has at last
fallen in with my project (as he calls it) of coining halfpence and
farthings, with devices, like medals, in honour of the Queen, every year
changing the device. I wish it may be done. Nite MD.

23. The Duke of Ormond and I appointed to dine with Ned Southwell
to-day, to talk of settling your affairs of Parliament in Ireland, but
there was a mixture of company, and the Duke of Ormond was in haste, and
nothing was done. If your Parliament meets this summer, it must be a new
one; but I find some are of opinion there should be none at all these
two years. I will trouble myself no more about it. My design was to
serve the Duke of Ormond. Dr. Pratt and I sat this evening with the
Bishop of Clogher, and played at ombre for threepences. That, I suppose,
is but low with you. I found, at coming home, a letter from MD, N.37. I
shall not answer it zis bout, but will the next. I am sorry for poo poo
Ppt. Pray walk hen oo can. I have got a terrible new cold before my old
one was quite gone, and don't know how. Pay. ... (26) I shall have DD's
money soon from the Exchequer. The Bishop of Dromore is dead now at
last. Nite, dee MD.

24. I was at Court to-day, and it was comical to see Lord Abercorn
bowing to me, but not speaking, and Lord Selkirk the same.(27) I dined
with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday Club, and sat with him two hours
after the rest were gone, and spoke freer to him of affairs than I am
afraid others do, who might do more good. All his friends repine, and
shrug their shoulders; but will not deal with him so freely as they
ought. It is an odd business; the Parliament just going to sit, and no
employments given. They say they will give them in a few days. There
is a new bishop made of Hereford;(28) so Ossory(29) is disappointed. I
hinted so to his friends two months ago, to make him leave off deluding
himself, and being indiscreet, as he was. I have just time to send this,
without giving to the bellman. Nite deelest richar MD.... dee MD MD MD
FW FW FW ME ME ME Lele Lele Lele.

My second cold is better now. Lele lele lele lele.




LETTER 59.(1)

LONDON, Jan. 25, 1712-1713.

We had such a terrible storm to-day, that, going to Lord Bolingbroke's,
I saw a hundred tiles fallen down; and one swinger fell about forty
yards before me, that would have killed a horse: so, after church and
Court, I walked through the Park, and took a chair to Lord Treasurer's.
Next door to his house, a tin chimneytop had fallen down, with a hundred
bricks. It is grown calm this evening. I wonder had you such a wind
to-day? I hate it as much as any hog does. Lord Treasurer has engaged
me to dine again with him to-morrow. He has those tricks sometimes of
inviting me from day to day, which I am forced to break through. My
little pamphlet(2) is out: 'tis not politics. If it takes, I say again
you shall hear of it. Nite dee logues.

26. This morning I felt a little touch of giddiness, which has
disordered and weakened me with its ugly remains all this day. Pity
Pdfr. After dinner at Lord Treasur