frolics and prologues, and I know not what. The Bishop of
Clogher and family are well: they have heard from you, or you from them,
lately, I have forgot which: I dined there t'other day, but the Bishop
came not till after dinner; and our meat and drink was very so so.
Mr. Vedeau(17) was with me yesterday, and inquired after you. He was a
lieutenant, and is now broke, and upon half-pay. He asked me nothing
for himself; but wanted an employment for a friend, who would give a
handsome pair of gloves. One Hales sent me up a letter t'other day,
which said you lodged in his house, and therefore desired I would get
him a civil employment. I would not be within, and have directed my
man to give him an answer, that I never open letters brought me by
the writers, etc. I was complaining to a lady that I wanted to mend an
employment from forty to sixty pounds a year, in the Salt Office, and
thought it hard I could not do it. She told me one Mr. Griffin(18)
should do it. And afterward I met Griffin at her lodgings; and he was,
as I found, one I had been acquainted with. I named Filby(19) to him,
and his abode somewhere near Nantwich. He said frankly he had formerly
examined the man, and found he understood very little of his business;
but if he heard he mended, he would do what I desired. I will let it
rest a while, and then resume it; and if Ppt writes to Filby, she may
advise him to diligence, etc. I told Griffin positively I would have it
done, if the man mended. This is an account of poo Ppt's commission to
her most humble servant Pdfr. I have a world of writing to finish, and
little time; these toads of Ministers are so slow in their helps. This
makes me sometimes steal a week from the exactness I used to write to
MD. Farewell, dee logues, deelest MD MD MD,... FW FW FW ME ME ME Lele.

Smoke the folding of my letters of late.(20)




LETTER 56.(1)

LONDON, Dec. 12, 1712.

Here is now a stlange ting; a rettle flom MD unanswered: never was
before. I am slower, and MD is faster: but the last was owing to DD's
certificate. Why could it not be sent before, pay now? Is it so hard for
DD to prove she is alive? I protest solemnly I am not able to write to
MD for other business, but I will resume my journal method next time. I
find it is easier, though it contains nothing but where I dine, and the
occurrences of the day. I will write now but once in three weeks
till this business is off my hands, which must be in six, I think, at
farthest. O Ppt, I remember your reprimanding me for meddling in other
people's affairs: I have enough of it now, with a wanion.(2) Two women
have been here six times apiece; I never saw them yet. The first I have
despatched with a letter; the other I must see, and tell her I can
do nothing for her: she is wife of one Connor,(3) an old college
acquaintance, and comes on a foolish errand, for some old pretensions,
that will succeed when I am Lord Treasurer. I am got (up) two pair of
stairs, in a private lodging, and have ordered all my friends not to
discover where I am; yet every morning two or three sots are plaguing
me, and my present servant has not yet his lesson perfect of denying me.
I have written a hundred and thirty pages in folio, to be printed,
and must write thirty more, which will make a large book of four
shillings.(4) I wish I knew an opportunity of sending you some snuff.
I will watch who goes to Ireland, and do it if possible. I had a
letter from Parvisol, and find he has set my livings very low. Colonel
Hamilton, who was second to the Duke of Hamilton, is tried to-day.
I suppose he is come off, but have not heard.(5) I dined with Lord
Treasurer, but left him by nine, and visited some people. Lady Betty,(6)
his(7) daughter, will be married on Monday next (as I suppose) to the
Marquis of Caermarthen. I did not know your country place had been
Portraine, till you told me so in your last. Has Swanton taken it of
Wallis? That Wallis was a grave, wise coxcomb. God be thanked that Ppt
im better of her disoddles.(8) Pray God keep her so. The pamphlet of
Political Lying is written by Dr. Arbuthnot, the author of John Bull;
'tis very pretty, but not so obvious to be understood. Higgins,(9) first
chaplain to the Duke of Hamilton? Why, the Duke of Hamilton never dreamt
of a chaplain, nor I believe ever heard of Higgins. You are glorious
newsmongers in Ireland--Dean Francis,(10) Sir R. Levinge,(11) stuff
stuff: and Pratt, more stuff. We have lost our fine frost here; and Abel
Roper tells as you have had floods in Dublin; ho, brave(12) you! Oh
ho! Swanton seized Portraine, now I understand oo. Ay, ay, now I see
Portraune at the top of your letter. I never minded it before. Now
to your second, N.36. So, you read one of the Grub Streets about the
bandbox.(13) The Whig papers have abused me about the bandbox. God help
me, what could I do? I fairly ventured my life. There is a particular
account of it in the Postboy, and Evening Post of that day. Lord
Treasurer has had the seal sent him that sealed the box, and directions
where to find the other pistol in a tree in St. James's Park, which Lord
Bolingbroke's messenger