and with skates, if you know what those are. Patrick's bird's
water freezes in the gallipot, and my hands in bed.

Feb. 1. I was this morning with poor Lady Kerry, who is much worse in
her head than I. She sends me bottles of her bitter; and we are so fond
of one another, because our ailments are the same; don't you know that,
Madam Stella? Han't I seen you conning ailments with Joe's wife,(3)
and some others, sirrah? I walked into the City to dine, because of the
walk, for we must take care of Presto's health, you know, because of
poor little MD. But I walked plaguy carefully, for fear of sliding
against my will; but I am very busy.

2. This morning Mr. Ford came to me to walk into the City, where he had
business, and then to buy books at Bateman's; and I laid out one pound
five shillings for a Strabo and Aristophanes, and I have now got books
enough to make me another shelf, and I will have more, or it shall cost
me a fall; and so as we came back, we drank a flask of right French wine
at Ben Tooke's chamber; and when I got home, Mrs. Vanhomrigh sent me
word her eldest daughter(4) was taken suddenly very ill, and desired I
would come and see her. I went, and found it was a silly trick of Mrs.
Armstrong,(5) Lady Lucy's sister, who, with Moll Stanhope, was visiting
there: however, I rattled off the daughter.

3. To-day I went and dined at Lady Lucy's, where you know I have not
been this long time. They are plaguy Whigs, especially the sister
Armstrong, the most insupportable of all women, pretending to wit,
without any taste. She was running down the last Examiner,(6) the
prettiest I had read, with a character of the present Ministry.--I left
them at five, and came home. But I forgot to tell you, that this morning
my cousin Dryden Leach, the printer, came to me with a heavy complaint,
that Harrison the new Tatler had turned him off, and taken the last
Tatler's printers again. He vowed revenge; I answered gravely, and so he
left me, and I have ordered Patrick to deny me to him from henceforth:
and at night comes a letter from Harrison, telling me the same thing,
and excused his doing it without my notice, because he would bear all
the blame; and in his Tatler of this day(7) he tells you the story, how
he has taken his old officers, and there is a most humble letter from
Morphew and Lillie to beg his pardon, etc.(8) And lastly, this morning
Ford sent me two letters from the Coffee-house (where I hardly ever go),
one from the Archbishop of Dublin, and t'other from--Who do you think
t'other was from?--I'll tell you, because you are friends; why, then it
was, faith, it was from my own dear little MD, N.10. Oh, but will not
answer it now, no, noooooh, I'll keep it between the two sheets; here it
is, just under; oh, I lifted up the sheet and saw it there: lie still,
you shan't be answered yet, little letter; for I must go to bed, and
take care of my head.

4. I avoid going to church yet, for fear of my head, though it has been
much better these last five or six days, since I have taken Lady Kerry's
bitter. Our frost holds like a dragon. I went to Mr. Addison's, and
dined with him at his lodgings; I had not seen him these three weeks, we
are grown common acquaintance; yet what have not I done for his friend
Steele? Mr. Harley reproached me the last time I saw him, that to please
me he would be reconciled to Steele, and had promised and appointed
to see him, and that Steele never came. Harrison, whom Mr. Addison
recommended to me, I have introduced to the Secretary of State, who has
promised me to take care of him; and I have represented Addison himself
so to the Ministry, that they think and talk in his favour, though they
hated him before.--Well, he is now in my debt, and there's an end; and
I never had the least obligation to him, and there's another end. This
evening I had a message from Mr. Harley, desiring to know whether I was
alive, and that I would dine with him to-morrow. They dine so late, that
since my head has been wrong I have avoided being with them.--Patrick
has been out of favour these ten days; I talk dry and cross to him,
and have called him "friend" three or four times. But, sirrahs, get you
gone.

5. Morning. I am going this morning to see Prior, who dines with me
at Mr. Harley's; so I can't stay fiddling and talking with dear little
brats in a morning, and 'tis still terribly cold.--I wish my cold hand
was in the warmest place about you, young women, I'd give ten guineas
upon that account with all my heart, faith; oh, it starves my thigh; so
I'll rise and bid you good-morrow, my ladies both, good-morrow. Come,
stand away, let me rise: Patrick, take away the candle. Is there a good
fire?--So--up-a-dazy.--At night. Mr. Harley did not sit down till six,
and I stayed till eleven; henceforth I will choose to visit him in the
evenings, and dine with him no more if I can help it. It breaks all my
measures, and hurts my health; my head is disorderly, but not ill, and I
hope it will mend.

6. Here has been such a hurry with the Queen's Birthday, so much fine
clothes, and the Court so crowded that I did not go there. All t