n. I lose my money at ombre
sadly; I make a thousand blunders. I play but(8) threepenny ombre; but
it is what you call running ombre. Lady Clarges,(9) and a drab I hate,
won a dozen shillings of me last night. The Parliament was prorogued
to-day; and people grumble; and the good of it is the peace cannot be
finished by the time they meet, there are so many fiddling things to do.
Is Ppt an ombre lady yet? You know all the tricks of it now, I suppose.
I reckon you have all your cards from France, for ours pay sixpence a
pack taxes, which goes deep to the box. I have given away all my Spa
water, and take some nasty steel drops, and my head has been better this
week past. I send every day to see how Miss Ashe does: she is very full,
they say, but in no danger. I fear she will lose some of her beauty.
The son lies out of the house. I wish he had them too, while he is so
young.--Nite MD.

18. The Earl of Abingdon(10) has been teasing me these three months to
dine with him; and this day was appointed about a week ago, and I named
my company; Lord Stawel,(11) Colonel Disney,(12) and Dr. Arbuthnot; but
the two last slipped out their necks, and left Stawell and me to dine
there. We did not dine till seven, because it is Ash Wednesday. We had
nothing but fish, which Lord Stawell could not eat, and got a broiled
leg of a turkey. Our wine was poison; yet the puppy has twelve thousand
pound a year. His carps were raw, and his candles tallow. He(13) shall
not catch me in haste again, and everybody has laughed at me for dining
with him. I was to-day to let Harrison's mother know I could not
pay till she administers; which she will do. I believe she is an old
bawd,(14) and her daughter a ------. There were more Whigs to-day at
Court than Tories. I believe they think the peace must be made, and so
come to please the Queen. She is still lame with the gout. Nite MD.

19. I was at Court to-day, to speak to Lord Bolingbroke to look over
Parnell's poem since it is corrected; and Parnell and I dined with him,
and he has shown him three or four more places to alter a little. Lady
Bolingbroke came down to us while we were at dinner, and Parnell stared
at her as if she were a goddess. I thought she was like Parnell's wife,
and he thought so too. Parnell is much pleased with Lord Bolingbroke's
favour to him, and I hope it may one day turn to his advantage. His poem
will be printed in a few days. Our weather continues as fresh raining as
if it had not rained at all. I sat to-night at Lady Masham's, where
Lord Treasurer came and scolded me for not dining with him. I told him
I could not till Saturday. I have stayed there till past twelve. So nite
dee sollahs, nite.

20. Lady Jersey, Lady Catherine Hyde,(15) the Spanish Ambassador, the
Duke d'Atree,(16) another Spaniard, and I, dined to-day by appointment
with Lord Bolingbroke; but they fell a drinking so many Spanish healths
in champagne that I stole away to the ladies, and drank tea till eight;
and then went and lost my money at ombre with Sir Andrew Fountaine, who
has a very bad leg. Miss Ashe is past all danger; and her eye, which was
lately bad (I suppose one effect of her distemper), is now better. I do
not let the Bishop see me, nor shall this good while. Good luck! when I
came home, I warrant, I found a letter from MD, No.38; and oo write
so small nowadays, I hope oo poor eyes are better. Well, this shall go
to-morrow se'nnight, with a bill for MD. I will speak to Mr. Griffin(17)
to-morrow about Ppt's brother Filby, and desire, whether he deserves
or no, that his employment may be mended; that is to say, if I can see
Griffin; otherwise not; and I'll answer oo rettle hen I Pdfr think fit.
Nite MD.

21. Methinks I writ a little saucy last night. I mean the last... (18) I
saw Griffin at Court. He says he knows nothing of a salt-work at Recton;
but that he will give Filby a better employment, and desires Filby will
write to him. If I knew how to write to Filby, I would; but pray do you.
Bid him make no mention of you; but only let Mr. Griffin know that
he has the honour to be recommended by Dr. S----, etc.; that he will
endeavour to deserve, etc.; and if you dictated a whole letter for him,
it would be better; I hope he can write and spell well. I'll inquire for
a direction to Griffin before I finish this. I dined with Lord Treasurer
and seven lords to-day. You know Saturday is his great day, but I sat
with them alone till eight, and then came home, and have been writing a
letter to Mrs. Davis, at York. She took care to have a letter delivered
for me at Lord Treasurer's; for I would not own one she sent by post.
She reproaches me for not writing to her these four years; and I have
honestly told her it was my way never to write to those whom I am never
likely to see, unless I can serve them, which I cannot her, etc. Davis
the schoolmaster's widow. Nite MD.

22. I dined to-day at Lord Orkney's, with the Duke of Ormond and Sir
Thomas Hanmer.(19) Have you ever heard of the latter? He married the
Duchess of Grafton in his youth (she dined with us too). He is the
most considerable man in the House of Common