seven, and
thought I would amuse myself a little, after the pains I had taken. I
saw a volume of Congreve's plays in my room, that Patrick had taken
to read; and I looked into it, and in mere loitering read in it till
twelve, like an owl and a fool: if ever I do so again; never saw
the like. Count Gallas,(7) the Emperor's Envoy, you will hear, is in
disgrace with us: the Queen has ordered her Ministers to have no more
commerce with him; the reason is, the fool writ a rude letter to Lord
Dartmouth, Secretary of State, complaining of our proceedings about
a peace; and he is always in close confidence with Lord Wharton and
Sunderland, and others of the late Ministry. I believe you begin to
think there will be no peace; the Whigs here are sure it cannot be, and
stocks are fallen again. But I am confident there will, unless France
plays us tricks; and you may venture a wager with any of your Whig
acquaintance that we shall not have another campaign. You will get
more by it than by ombre, sirrah.--I let slip telling you yesterday's
journal, which I thought to have done this morning, but blundered. I
dined yesterday at Harry Coote's, with Lord Hatton,(8) Mr. Finch, a son
of Lord Nottingham, and Sir Andrew Fountaine. I left them soon, but
hear they stayed till two in the morning, and were all drunk: and so
good-night for last night, and good-night for to-night. You blundering
goosecap, an't you ashamed to blunder to young ladies? I shall have a
fire in three or four days now, oh ho.

30. I was to-day in the City concerting some things with a printer, and
am to be to-morrow all day busy with Mr. Secretary about the same. I
won't tell you now; but the Ministers reckon it will do abundance of
good, and open the eyes of the nation, who are half bewitched against a
peace. Few of this generation can remember anything but war and taxes,
and they think it is as it should be; whereas 'tis certain we are the
most undone people in Europe, as I am afraid I shall make appear beyond
all contradiction. But I forgot; I won't tell you what I will do, nor
what I will not do: so let me alone, and go to Stoyte, and give Goody
Stoyte and Catherine my humble service; I love Goody Stoyte better than
Goody Walls. Who'll pay me for this green apron? I will have the money;
it cost ten shillings and sixpence. I think it plaguy dear for a cheap
thing; but they said that English silk would cockle,(9) and I know not
what. You have the making into the bargain. 'Tis right Italian: I have
sent it and the pamphlets to Leigh, and will send the Miscellanies and
spectacles in a day or two. I would send more; but, faith, I'm plaguy
poor at present.

31. The devil's in this Secretary: when I went this morning he had
people with him; but says he, "we are to dine with Prior to-day, and
then will do all our business in the afternoon": at two, Prior sends
word he is otherwise engaged; then the Secretary and I go and dine with
Brigadier Britton, sit till eight, grow merry, no business done; he is
in haste to see Lady Jersey;(10) we part, and appoint no time to meet
again. This is the fault of all the present Ministers, teasing me to
death for my assistance, laying the whole weight of their affairs upon
it, yet slipping opportunities. Lord Treasurer mends every day, though
slowly: I hope he will take care of himself. Pray, will you send to
Parvisol to send me a bill of twenty pounds as soon as he can, for I
want money. I must have money; I will have money, sirrahs.

Nov. 1. I went to-day into the City to settle some business with
Stratford, and to dine with him; but he was engaged, and I was so angry
I would not dine with any other merchant, but went to my printer, and
ate a bit, and did business of mischief with him, and I shall have the
spectacles and Miscellany to-morrow, and leave them with Leigh. A fine
day always makes me go into the City, if I can spare time, because it is
exercise; and that does me more good than anything. I have heard nothing
since of my head, but a little, I don't know how, sometimes: but I am
very temperate, especially now the Treasurer is ill, and the Ministers
often at Hampton Court, and the Secretary not yet fixed in his house,
and I hate dining with many of my old acquaintance. Here has been
a fellow discovered going out of the East India House with sixteen
thousand pounds in money and bills; he would have escaped, if he had not
been so uneasy with thirst, that he stole out before his time, and was
caught. But what is that to MD? I wish we had the money, provided the
East India Company was never the worse; you know we must not covet, etc.
Our weather, for this fortnight past, is chequered, a fair and a rainy
day: this was very fine, and I have walked four miles; wish MD would do
so, lazy sluttikins.

2. It has rained all day with a continuendo, and I went in a chair to
dine with Mrs. Van; always there in a very rainy day. But I made a shift
to come back afoot. I live a very retired life, pay very few visits, and
keep but very little company; I read no newspapers. I am sorry I sent
you the Examiner, for the printer is going to print them in a sma