 What care I whether my Letter to
Lord Treasurer be commended there or no? Why does not somebody among
you answer it, as three or four have done here? (I am now sitting with
nothing but my nightgown, for heat.) Ppt shall have a great Bible. I
have put it down in my memlandums(4) just now. And DD shall be repaid
her t'other book; but patience, all in good time: you are so hasty,
a dog would, etc. So Ppt has neither won nor lost. Why, mun, I play
sometimes too at picket, that is picquet, I mean; but very seldom.--Out
late? why, 'tis only at Lady Masham's, and that is in our town; but I
never come late here from London, except once in rain, when I could
not get a coach. We have had very little thunder here; none these
two months. Why, pray, madam philosopher, how did the rain hinder the
thunder from doing any harm? I suppose it ssquenched it. So here comes
Ppt aden(5) with her little watery postscript. O Rold, dlunken srut!(6)
drink Pdfr's health ten times in a morning! you are a whetter, fais;
I sup MD's fifteen times evly molning in milk porridge. Lele's fol oo
now--and lele's fol oo rettle, and evly kind of sing(7)--and now I
must say something else. You hear Secretary St. John is made Viscount
Bullinbrook.(8) I can hardly persuade him to take that title, because
the eldest branch of his family had it in an earldom, and it was last
year extinct. If he did not take it, I advised him to be Lord Pomfret,
which I think is a noble title. You hear of it often in the Chronicles,
Pomfret Castle: but we believed it was among the titles of some other
lord. Jack Hill sent his sister a pattern of a head-dress from Dunkirk;
it was like our fashion twenty years ago, only not quite so high, and
looked very ugly. I have made Trapp(9) chaplain to Lord Bullinbroke, and
he is mighty happy and thankful for it. Mr. Addison returned me my
visit this morning. He lives in our town. I shall be mighty retired, and
mighty busy for a while at Windsor. Pray why don't MD go to Trim, and
see Laracor, and give me an account of the garden, and the river, and
the holly and the cherry-trees on the river-walk?

19. I could not send this letter last post, being called away before I
could fold or finish it. I dined yesterday with Lord Treasurer; sat with
him till ten at night; yet could not find a minute for some business I
had with him. He brought me to Kensington, and Lord Bulingbrook would
not let me go away till two; and I am now in bed, very lazy and sleepy
at nine. I must shave head and face, and meet Lord Bullinbrook at
eleven, and dine again with Lord Treasurer. To-day there will be another
Grub,(10) A Letter from the Pretender to a Whig Lord. Grub Street has
but ten days to live; then an Act of Parliament takes place that ruins
it, by taxing every half-sheet at a halfpenny. We have news just come,
but not the particulars, that the Earl of Albemarle,(11) at the head of
eight thousand Dutch, is beaten, lost the greatest part of his men, and
himself a prisoner. This perhaps may cool their courage, and make them
think of a peace. The Duke of Ormond has got abundance of credit by his
good conduct of affairs in Flanders. We had a good deal of rain last
night, very refreshing. 'Tis late, and I must rise. Don't play at ombre
in your waters, sollah. Farewell, deelest MD, MD MD MD FW FW ME ME ME
Lele Lele Lele.




LETTER 51.(1)

LONDON, Aug. 7, 1712.

I had your N.32 at Windsor: I just read it, and immediately sealed it up
again, and shall read it no more this twelvemonth at least. The reason
of my resentment at it is, because you talk as glibly of a thing as if
it were done, which, for aught I know, is farther from being done than
ever, since I hear not a word of it, though the town is full of it, and
the Court always giving me joy and vexation. You might be sure I would
have let you know as soon as it was done; but I believe you fancied I
would affect not to tell it you, but let you learn it from newspapers
and reports. I remember only there was something in your letter about
ME's money, and that shall be taken care of on the other side. I left
Windsor on Monday last, upon Lord Bolingbroke's being gone to France,
and somebody's being here that I ought often to consult with in an
affair I am upon: but that person talks of returning to Windsor again,
and I believe I shall follow him. I am now in a hedge-lodging very busy,
as I am every day till noon: so that this letter is like to be short,
and you are not to blame me these two months; for I protest, if I study
ever so hard, I cannot in that time compass what I am upon. We have
a fever both here and at Windsor, which hardly anybody misses; but it
lasts not above three or four days, and kills nobody.(2) The Queen has
forty servants down of it at once. I dined yesterday with Treasurer, but
could do no business, though he sent for me, I thought, on purpose;
but he desires I will dine with him again to-day. Windsor is a most
delightful place, and at this time abounds in dinners. My lodgings there
look upon Eton and the Thames. I wish I was owner of them; they belong
to a prebend. God knows what was in your letter; a