f we have Dunkirk once,
all is safe. We rail now all against the Dutch, who, indeed, have acted
like knaves, fools, and madmen. Mr. Secretary is soon to be made a
viscount. He desired I would draw the preamble of his patent; but
I excused myself from a work that might lose me a great deal of
reputation, and get me very little. We would fain have the Court make
him an earl, but it would not be; and therefore he will not take the
title of Bullenbrook,(8) which is lately extinct in the elder branch of
his family. I have advised him to be called Lord Pomfret; but he thinks
that title is already in some other family;(9) and, besides, he objects
that it is in Yorkshire, where he has no estate; but there is nothing in
that, and I love Pomfret. Don't you love Pomfret? Why? 'Tis in all our
histories; they are full of Pomfret Castle. But what's all this to you?
You don't care for this. Is Goody Stoyte come to London? I have not
heard of her yet. The Dean of St. Patrick's never had the manners to
answer my letter. I was t'other day to see Sterne(10) and his wife.
She is not half so handsome as when I saw her with you at Dublin. They
design to pass the summer at a house near Lord Somers's, about a dozen
miles off. You never told me how my "Letter to Lord Treasurer" passes in
Ireland. I suppose you are drinking at this time Temple-something's(11)
waters. Steele was arrested the other day for making a lottery directly
against an Act of Parliament. He is now under prosecution; but they
think it will be dropped out of pity.(12) I believe he will very soon
lose his employment, for he has been mighty impertinent of late in his
Spectators; and I will never offer a word in his behalf. Raymond writes
me word that the Bishop of Meath(13) was going to summon me, in order
to suspension, for absence, if the Provost had not prevented him. I am
prettily rewarded for getting them their First-Fruits, with a p--. We
have had very little hot weather during the whole month of June; and for
a week past we have had a great deal of rain, though not every day. I am
just now told that the Governor of Dunkirk has not orders yet to deliver
up the town to Jack Hill and his forces, but expects them daily. This
must put off Hill's journey a while, and I don't like these stoppings in
such an affair. Go, get oo gone, and drink oo waters, if this rain has
not spoiled them, sauci doxi. I have no more to say to oo at plesent;
but rove Pdfr, and MD, and ME. And Podefr will rove Pdfr, and MD and
ME. I wish you had taken any account when I sent money to Mrs. Brent.
I believe I han't done it a great while. And pray send me notice when
ME... to have it when it is due.(14) Farewell, dearest MD FW FW FW ME ME
ME.




LETTER 50.(1)

KENSINGTON, July 17, 1712.

I am weary of living in this place, and glad to leave it soon. The Queen
goes on Tuesday to Windsor, and I shall follow in three or four days
after. I can do nothing here, going early to London, and coming late
from it, and supping at Lady Masham's. I dined to-day with the Duke of
Argyle at Cue (Kew), and would not go to the Court to-night, because of
writing to MD. The Bishop of Clogher has been here this fortnight: I see
him as often as I can. Poor Master Ashe has a sad redness in his face;
it is St. Anthony's fire; his face all swelled, and will break in his
cheek, but no danger. Since Dunkirk has been in our hands, Grub Street
has been very fruitful. Pdfr has writ five or six Grub Street papers
this last week. Have you seen Toland's Invitation to Dismal, or Hue and
Cry after Dismal, or Ballad on Dunkirk, or Argument that Dunkirk is not
in our Hands? Poh! you have seen nothing. I am dead here with the hot
weather; yet I walk every night home, and believe it does me good:
but my shoulder is not yet right; itchings, and scratchings, and small
achings. Did I tell you I had made Ford Gazetteer, with two hundred
pounds a year salary, beside perquisites? I had a letter lately from
Parvisol, who says my canal looks very finely; I long to see it; but
no apples; all blasted again. He tells me there will be a triennial
visitation in August. I must send Raymond another proxy. So now I will
answer oo rettle N.33,(2) dated June 17. Ppt writes as well as ever, for
all her waters. I wish I had never come here, as often and as heartily
as Ppt. What had I to do here? I have heard of the Bishop's making me
uneasy, but I did not think it was because I never writ to him. A little
would make me write to him, but I don't know what to say. I find I am
obliged to the Provost for keeping the Bishop(3) from being impertinent.
Yes, Maram DD, but oo would not be content with letters flom Pdfr of six
lines, or twelve either, fais. I hope Ppt will have done with the waters
soon, and find benefit by them. I believe, if they were as far off
as Wexford, they would do as much good; for I take the journey to
contribute as much as anything. I can assure you the Bishop of Clogher's
being here does not in the least affect my staying or going. I never
talked to Higgins but once in my life in the street, and I believe he
and I shall hardly meet but by chance.