so late; he chid me for not dining with him; said he
stayed an hour for me. Then I went and sat with Mr. Lewis till just now,
and it is past eleven. I lie in the same house with the Secretary, one
of the Prebendary's houses. The Secretary is not come from his apartment
in the Castle. Do you think that abominable dog Patrick was out after
two to-day, and I in a fright every moment, for fear the chariot should
come; and when he came in, he had not put up one rag of my things! I
never was in a greater passion, and would certainly have cropped one of
his ears, if I had not looked every moment for the Secretary, who sent
his equipage to my lodging before, and came in a chair from Whitehall
to me, and happened to stay half an hour later than he intended. One of
Lord Treasurer's servants gave me a letter to-night: I found it was
from ----, with an offer of fifty pounds, to be paid me in what manner
I pleased; because, he said, he desired to be well with me. I was in a
rage;(7) but my friend Lewis cooled me, and said it is what the best
men sometimes meet with; and I have been not seldom served in the like
manner, although not so grossly. In these cases I never demur a moment,
nor ever found the least inclination to take anything. Well, I will go
try to sleep in my new bed, and to dream of poor Wexford MD, and Stella
that drinks water, and Dingley that drinks ale.

29. I was at Court and church to-day, as I was this day se'ennight: I
generally am acquainted with about thirty in the drawing-room, and I
am so proud I make all the lords come up to me: one passes half an hour
pleasant enough. We had a dunce to preach before the Queen to-day,
which often happens. Windsor is a delicious situation, but the town is
scoundrel. I have this morning got the Gazette for Ben Tooke and one
Barber a printer; it will be about three hundred pounds a year between
them. The other fellow was printer of the Examiner, which is now laid
down.(8) I dined with the Secretary: we were a dozen in all, three
Scotch lords, and Lord Peterborow. The Duke of Hamilton(9) would needs
be witty, and hold up my train as I walked upstairs. It is an ill
circumstance that on Sundays much company always meet at the great
tables. Lord Treasurer told at Court what I said to Mr. Secretary on
this occasion. The Secretary showed me his bill of fare, to encourage me
to dine with him. "Poh," said I, "show me a bill of company, for I value
not your dinner." See how this is all blotted,(10) I can write no more
here, but to tell you I love MD dearly, and God bless them.

30. In my conscience, I fear I shall have the gout. I sometimes feel
pains about my feet and toes: I never drank till within these two years,
and I did it to cure my head. I often sit evenings with some of these
people, and drink in my turn; but I am now resolved to drink ten times
less than before; but they advise me to let what I drink be all wine,
and not to put water to it. Tooke and the printer stayed to-day to
finish their affair, and treated me and two of the Under Secretaries
upon their getting the Gazette. Then I went to see Lord Treasurer, and
chid him for not taking notice of me at Windsor. He said he kept a place
for me yesterday at dinner, and expected me there; but I was glad I did
not go, because the Duke of Buckingham was there, and that would have
made us acquainted; which I have no mind to. However, we appointed to
sup at Mr. Masham's, and there stayed till past one o'clock; and that is
late, sirrahs: and I have much business.

31. I have sent a noble haunch of venison this afternoon to Mrs.
Vanhomrigh: I wish you had it, sirrahs. I dined gravely with my landlord
the Secretary. The Queen was abroad to-day in order to hunt; but,
finding it disposed to rain, she kept in her coach; she hunts in a
chaise with one horse, which she drives herself, and drives furiously,
like Jehu, and is a mighty hunter, like Nimrod. Dingley has heard of
Nimrod, but not Stella, for it is in the Bible. I was to-day at Eton,
which is but just cross the bridge, to see my Lord Kerry's son,(11) who
is at school there. Mr. Secretary has given me a warrant for a buck; I
can't send it to MD. It is a sad thing, faith, considering how Presto
loves MD, and how MD would love Presto's venison for Presto's sake. God
bless the two dear Wexford girls!

Aug. 1. We had for dinner the fellow of that haunch of venison I sent to
London; 'twas mighty fat and good, and eight people at dinner; that was
bad. The Queen and I were going to take the air this afternoon, but
not together; and were both hindered by a sudden rain. Her coaches
and chaises all went back, and the guards too; and I scoured into the
market-place for shelter. I intended to have walked up the finest avenue
I ever saw, two miles long, with two rows of elms on each side. I walked
in the evening a little upon the terrace, and came home at eight: Mr.
Secretary came soon after, and we were engaging in deep discourse, and I
was endeavouring to settle some points of the greatest consequence, and
had wormed myself pretty well into him, when his Under Secretary came in
(who lodges in the