et family not being out. The
Secretary and I, and brother Bathurst, and Lord Windsor, dined with the
Duke of Ormond. Bathurst and Windsor(2) are to be two of the new lords.
I desired my Lord Radnor's brother,(3) at Court to-day, to let my lord
know I would call on him at six, which I did, and was arguing with
him three hours to bring him over to us, and I spoke so closely that I
believe he will be tractable; but he is a scoundrel, and though I said
I only talked for my love to him, I told a lie; for I did not care if
he were hanged: but everyone gained over is of consequence. The Duke of
Marlborough was at Court today, and nobody hardly took notice of him.
Masham's being a lord begins to take wind: nothing at Court can be kept
a secret. Wednesday will be a great day: you shall know more.

31. Our frost is broken since yesterday, and it is very slabbery;(4)
yet I walked to the City and dined, and ordered some things with the
printer. I have settled Dr. King in the Gazette; it will be worth two
hundred pounds a year to him. Our new lords' patents are passed: I don't
like the expedient, if we could have found any other. I see I have said
this before. I hear the Duke of Marlborough is turned out of all his
employments: I shall know to-morrow when I am to carry Dr. King to dine
with the Secretary.--These are strong remedies; pray God the patient is
able to bear them. The last Ministry people are utterly desperate.

Jan. 1. Now I wish my dearest little MD many happy new years; yes, both
Dingley and Stella, ay and Presto too, many happy new years. I dined
with the Secretary, and it is true that the Duke of Marlborough
is turned out of all. The Duke of Ormond has got his regiment of
foot-guards, I know not who has the rest. If the Ministry be not sure of
a peace, I shall wonder at this step, and do not approve it at best. The
Queen and Lord Treasurer mortally hate the Duke of Marlborough, and to
that he owes his fall, more than to his other faults: unless he has
been tampering too far with his party, of which I have not heard any
particulars; however it be, the world abroad will blame us. I confess
my belief that he has not one good quality in the world beside that of
a general, and even that I have heard denied by several great soldiers.
But we have had constant success in arms while he commanded. Opinion is
a mighty matter in war, and I doubt the French think it impossible to
conquer an army that he leads, and our soldiers think the same; and how
far even this step may encourage the French to play tricks with us,
no man knows. I do not love to see personal resentment mix with public
affairs.

2. This being the day the Lords meet, and the new peers to be
introduced, I went to Westminster to see the sight; but the crowd was
too great in the house. So I only went into the robing-room, to give my
four brothers joy, and Sir Thomas Mansel,(5) and Lord Windsor; the other
six I am not acquainted with. It was apprehended the Whigs would have
raised some difficulties, but nothing happened. I went to see Lady
Masham at noon, and wish her joy of her new honour, and a happy new
year. I found her very well pleased; for peerage will be some sort of
protection to her upon any turn of affairs. She engaged me to come at
night, and sup with her and Lord Treasurer: I went at nine, and she was
not at home, so I would not stay.--No, no, I won't answer your letter
yet, young women. I dined with a friend in the neighbourhood. I see
nothing here like Christmas, except brawn or mince-pies in places where
I dine, and giving away my half-crowns like farthings to great men's
porters and butlers. Yesterday I paid seven good guineas to the fellow
at the tavern where I treated the Society. I have a great mind to send
you the bill. I think I told you some articles. I have not heard whether
anything was done in the House of Lords after introducing the new ones.
Ford has been sitting with me till peeast tweeleve a clock.

3. This was our Society day: Lord Dupplin was President; we choose every
week; the last President treats and chooses his successor. I believe our
dinner cost fifteen pounds beside wine. The Secretary grew brisk, and
would not let me go, nor Lord Lansdowne,(6) who would fain have gone
home to his lady, being newly married to Lady Mary Thynne. It was near
one when we parted, so you must think I cannot write much to-night. The
adjourning of the House of Lords yesterday, as the Queen desired, was
just carried by the twelve new lords, and one more. Lord Radnor was not
there: I hope I have cured him. Did I tell you that I have brought Dr.
King in to be Gazetteer? It will be worth above two hundred pounds a
year to him: I believe I told you so before, but I am forgetful. Go, get
you gone to ombre, and claret, and toasted oranges. I'll go sleep.

4. I cannot get rid of the leavings of my cold. I was in the City
to-day, and dined with my printer, and gave him a ballad made by several
hands, I know not whom. I believe Lord Treasurer had a finger in it; I
added three stanzas; I suppose Dr. Arbuthnot had the greatest share. I
had been overseeing some other li