me for a coffee-house; once a week I
meet acquaintance there, that I should not otherwise see in a quarter.
There is a flying report that the French have offered a cessation of
arms, and to give us Dunkirk, and the Dutch Namur, for security,
till the peace is made. The Duke of Ormond, they say, goes in a week.
Abundance of his equipage is already gone. His(2) friends are afraid
the expense of this employment will ruin him, since he must lose the
government of Ireland. I dined privately with a friend, and refused all
dinners offered me at Court; which, however, were but two, and I did not
like either. Did I tell you of a scoundrel about the Court that sells
employments to ignorant people, and cheats them of their money? He
lately made a bargain for the Vice-Chamberlain's place, for seven
thousand pounds, and had received some guineas earnest; but the whole
thing was discovered t'other day, and examination taken of it by Lord
Dartmouth, and I hope he will be swinged. The Vice-Chamberlain told me
several particulars of it last night at Lord Masham's. Can DD play at
ombre yet, enough to hold the cards while Ppt steps into the next room?
Nite deelest sollahs.(3)

24. This morning I recommended Newcomb again to the Duke of Ormond, and
left Dick Stewart(4) to do it further. Then I went to visit the Duchess
of Hamilton, who was not awake. So I went to the Duchess of Shrewsbury,
and sat an hour at her toilet. I talked to her about the Duke's being
Lord Lieutenant. She said she knew nothing of it; but I rallied her
out of that, and she resolves not to stay behind the Duke. I intend to
recommend the Bishop of Clogher to her for an acquaintance. He will
like her very well: she is, indeed, a most agreeable woman, and a great
favourite of mine. I know not whether the ladies in Ireland will like
her. I was at the Court of Requests, to get some lords to be at a
committee to-morrow, about a friend's Bill: and then the Duke of
Beaufort gave me a poem, finely bound in folio, printed at Stamford, and
writ by a country squire. Lord Exeter(5) desired the Duke to give it the
Queen, because the author is his friend; but the Duke desired I would
let him know whether it was good for anything. I brought it home, and
will return it to-morrow, as the dullest thing I ever read; and advise
the Duke not to present it. I dined with Domville at his lodgings, by
invitation; for he goes in a few days for Ireland. Nite dee MD.

25. There is a mighty feast at a Tory sheriff's to-day in the City:
twelve hundred dishes of meat.--Above five lords, and several hundred
gentlemen, will be there, and give four or five guineas apiece,
according to custom. Dr. Coghill and I dined, by invitation, at Mrs.
Van's. It has rained or mizzled all day, as my pockets feel. There are
two new answers come out to the Conduct of the Allies. The last year's
Examiners, printed together in a small volume, go off but slowly. The
printer over-printed himself by at least a thousand; so soon out of
fashion are party papers, however so well writ. The Medleys are coming
out in the same volume, and perhaps may sell better. Our news about a
cessation of arms begins to flag, and I have not these three days seen
anybody in business to ask them about it. We had a terrible fire last
night in Drury Lane, or thereabouts, and three or four people destroyed.
One of the maids of honour has the smallpox; but the best is, she can
lose no beauty; and we have one new handsome maid of honour. Nite MD.

26. I forgot to tell you that on Sunday last, about seven at night,
it lightened above fifty times as I walked the Mall, which I think is
extraordinary at this time of the year, and the weather was very
hot. Had you anything of this in Dublin? I intended to dine with Lord
Treasurer to-day; but Lord Mansel and Mr. Lewis made me dine with them
at Kit Musgrave's.(6) I sat the evening with Mrs. Wesley, who goes
to-morrow morning to the Bath. She is much better than she was. The news
of the French desiring a cessation of arms, etc., was but town talk. We
shall know in a few days, as I am told, whether there will be a peace
or not. The Duke of Ormond will go in a week for Flanders, they say.
Our Mohocks go on still, and cut people's faces every night; fais, they
shan't cut mine, I like it better as it is. The dogs will cost me at
least a crown a week in chairs. I believe the souls of your houghers of
cattle have got into them, and now they don't distinguish between a cow
and a Christian. I forgot to wish you yesterday a happy New Year. You
know the twenty-fifth of March is the first day of the year, and now you
must leave off cards, and put out your fire. I'll put out mine the first
of April, cold or not cold. I believe I shall lose credit with you by
not coming over at the beginning of April; but I hoped the session
would be ended, and I must stay till then; yet I would fain be at the
beginning of my willows growing. Perceval tells me that the quicksets
upon the flat in the garden do not grow so well as those famous ones
on the ditch. They want digging about them. The cherry-trees, by the
river-side, my heart is set