to me of the neglect of Guiscard's cure, how glad he would
have been to have had him live. Mr. Secretary came in to us, and we were
very merry till Lord Chamberlain (Duke of Shrewsbury)(12) came up; then
Colonel Masham and I went off, after I had been presented to the
Duke, and that we made two or three silly compliments suitable to the
occasion. Then I attended at the House of Commons about your yarn, and
it is again put off. Then Ford drew me to dine at a tavern; it happened
to be the day and the house where the October Club dine. After we had
dined, coming down we called to inquire whether our yarn business
had been over that day, and I sent into the room for Sir George
Beaumont.(13) But I had like to be drawn into a difficulty; for in two
minutes out comes Mr. Finch,(14) Lord Guernsey's son, to let me know
that my Lord Compton,(15) the steward of this feast, desired, in the
name of the Club, that I would do them the honour to dine with them. I
sent my excuses, adorned with about thirty compliments, and got off as
fast as I could. It would have been a most improper thing for me to dine
there, considering my friendship with the Ministry. The Club is about a
hundred and fifty, and near eighty of them were then going to dinner at
two long tables in a great ground-room. At evening I went to the auction
of Barnard's books, and laid out three pounds three shillings, but I'll
go there no more; and so I said once before, but now I'll keep to it. I
forgot to tell that when I dined at Webb's with Lord Anglesea, I spoke
to him of Clements, as one recommended for a very honest gentleman and
good officer, and hoped he would keep him. He said he had not thought
otherwise, and that he should certainly hold his place while he
continued to deserve it; and I could not find there had been any
intentions from his lordship against him. But I tell you, hunny, the
impropriety of this. A great man will do a favour for me, or for my
friend; but why should he do it for my friend's friend? Recommendations
should stop before they come to that. Let any friend of mine recommend
one of his to me for a thing in my power, I will do it for his sake; but
to speak to another for my friend's friend is against all reason; and I
desire you will understand this, and discourage any such troubles given
me.--I hope this may do some good to Clements, it can do him no hurt;
and I find by Mrs. Pratt,(16) that her husband is his friend; and the
Bishop of Clogher says Clements's danger is not from Pratt, but from
some other enemies, that think him a Whig.

14. I was so busy this morning that I did not go out till late. I
writ to-day to the Duke of Argyle, but said nothing of Bernage, who, I
believe, will not see him till Spain is conquered, and that is, not at
all. I was to-day at Lord Shelburne's, and spoke to Mrs. Pratt again
about Clements; her husband himself wants some good offices, and I
have done him very good ones lately, and told Mrs. Pratt I expected her
husband should stand by Clements in return. Sir Andrew Fountaine and
I dined with neighbour Vanhomrigh; he is mighty ill of an asthma, and
apprehends himself in much danger; 'tis his own fault, that will rake
and drink, when he is but just crawled out of his grave. I will send
this letter just now, because I think my half-year is out for my
lodging; and, if you please, I would be glad it were paid off, and some
deal boxes made for my books, and kept in some safe place. I would give
something for their keeping: but I doubt that lodging will not serve me
when I come back; I would have a larger place for books, and a stable,
if possible. So pray be so kind to pay the lodging, and all accounts
about it; and get Mrs. Brent to put up my things. I would have no books
put in that trunk where my papers are. If you do not think of going to
the Bath, I here send you a bill on Parvisol for twenty pounds Irish,
out of which you will pay for the lodging, and score the rest to me. Do
as you please, and love poor Presto, that loves MD better than his life
a thousand millions of times. Farewell, MD, etc. etc.




LETTER 21.

LONDON, April 14, 1711.

Remember, sirrahs, that there are but nine days between the dates of
my two former letters. I sent away my twentieth this moment, and now am
writing on like a fish, as if nothing was done. But there was a cause
for my hasting away the last, for fear it should not come time enough
before a new quarter began. I told you where I dined to-day; but forgot
to tell you what I believe, that Mr. Harley will be Lord Treasurer in
a short time, and other great removes and promotions made. This is my
thought, etc.

15. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary, and he is grown pretty well.
I dined with him to-day, and drank some of that wine which the Duke of
Tuscany used to send to Sir William Temple:(1) he always sends some
to the chief Ministers. I liked it mightily, but he does not; and he
ordered his butler to send me a chest of it to-morrow. Would to God MD
had it! The Queen is well again, and was at chapel to-day, etc.

16. I went with Ford into the City to-day, and dined with Stratford,
an