ke it, and
a friend not; and that telling the author would make both change their
opinions. Why did you not tell Griffyth(39) that you fancied there was
something in it of my manner; but first spur up his commendation to the
height, as we served my poor uncle about the sconce that I mended? Well,
I desired you to give what I intended for an answer to Mrs. Fenton,(40)
to save her postage, and myself trouble; and I hope I have done it, if
you han't.

15. Lord, what a long day's writing was yesterday's answer to your
letter, sirrahs! I dined to-day with Lewis and Ford, whom I have brought
acquainted. Lewis told me a pure thing. I had been hankering with Mr.
Harley to save Steele his other employment, and have a little mercy on
him; and I had been saying the same thing to Lewis, who is Mr. Harley's
chief favourite. Lewis tells Mr. Harley how kindly I should take it, if
he would be reconciled to Steele, etc. Mr. Harley, on my account, falls
in with it, and appoints Steele a time to let him attend him, which
Steele accepts with great submission, but never comes, nor sends any
excuse. Whether it was blundering, sullenness, insolence, or rancour of
party, I cannot tell; but I shall trouble myself no more about him. I
believe Addison hindered him out of mere spite, being grated(41) to the
soul to think he should ever want my help to save his friend; yet now
he is soliciting me to make another of his friends Queen's Secretary at
Geneva; and I'll do it if I can; it is poor Pastoral Philips.(42)

16. O, why did you leave my picture behind you at t'other lodgings?
Forgot it? Well; but pray remember it now, and don't roll it up, d'ye
hear; but hang it carefully in some part of your room, where chairs and
candles and mop-sticks won't spoil it, sirrahs. No, truly, I will not
be godfather to Goody Walls this bout, and I hope she will have no more.
There will be no quiet nor cards for this child. I hope it will die the
day after the christening. Mr. Harley gave me a paper, with an
account of the sentence you speak of against the lads that defaced the
statue,(43) and that Ingoldsby(44) reprieved that part of it of standing
before the statue. I hope it was never executed. We have got your
Broderick out;(45) Doyne(46) is to succeed him, and Cox(47) Doyne. And
so there's an end of your letter; 'tis all answered; and now I must go
on upon my own stock. Go on, did I say? Why, I have written enough; but
this is too soon to send it yet, young women; faith, I dare not use
you to it, you'll always expect it; what remains shall be only short
journals of a day, and so I'll rise for this morning.--At night. I dined
with my opposite neighbour, Darteneuf; and I was soliciting this day to
present the Bishop of Clogher Vice-Chancellor;(48) but it won't do; they
are all set against him, and the Duke of Ormond, they say, has resolved
to dispose of it somewhere else. Well; little saucy rogues, do not stay
out too late to-night, because it is Saturday night, and young women
should come home soon then.

17. I went to Court to seek a dinner: but the Queen was not at church,
she has got a touch of the gout; so the Court was thin, and I went to
the Coffee-house; and Sir Thomas Frankland and his eldest son and I went
and dined with his son William.(49) I talked a great deal to Sir Thomas
about Manley; and find he is his good friend, and so has Ned Southwell
been, and I hope he will be safe, though all the Irish folks here are
his mortal enemies. There was a devilish bite to-day. They had it, I
know not how, that I was to preach this morning at St. James's Church;
an abundance went, among the rest Lord Radnor, who never is abroad till
three in the afternoon. I walked all the way home from Hatton Garden at
six, by moonlight, a delicate night. Raymond called at nine, but I was
denied; and now I am in bed between eleven and twelve, just going to
sleep, and dream of my own dear roguish impudent pretty MD.

18. You will now have short days' works, just a few lines to tell you
where I am, and what I am doing; only I will keep room for the last day
to tell you news, if there be any worth sending. I have been sometimes
like to do it at the top of my letter, until I remark it would be old
before it reached you. I was hunting to dine with Mr. Harley to-day, but
could not find him; and so I dined with honest Dr. Cockburn, and came
home at six, and was taken out to next door by Dopping and Ford, to
drink bad claret and oranges; and we let Raymond come to us, who talks
of leaving the town to-morrow, but I believe will stay a day or two
longer. It is now late, and I will say no more, but end this line with
bidding my own dear saucy MD goodnight, etc.

19. I am come down proud stomach in one instance, for I went to-day to
see the Duke of Buckingham,(50) but came too late: then I visited Mrs.
Barton,(51) and thought to have dined with some of the Ministry; but
it rained, and Mrs. Vanhomrigh was nigh, and I took the opportunity of
paying her for a scarf she bought me, and dined there; at four I went to
congratulate with Lord Shelburne, for the death of poor Lady Shelburne
dowager;(52) 