 his pocket to pay a coach! I paid
him while he was with me seven guineas, in part of a dozen of shirts he
bought me in Holland. I presented him to the Duke of Ormond, and several
lords at Court; and I contrived it so that Lord Treasurer came to me and
asked (I had Parnell by me) whether that was Dr. Parnell, and came up
and spoke to him with great kindness, and invited him to his house.
I value myself upon making the Ministry desire to be acquainted with
Parnell, and not Parnell with the Ministry. His poem is almost fully
corrected, and shall soon be out. Here's enough for to-day: only to tell
you that I was in the City with my printer to alter an Examiner about my
friend Lewis's story,(10) which will be told with remarks. Nite MD.

Feb. 1. I could do nothing till to-day about the Examiner, but the
printer came this morning, and I dictated to him what was fit to be
said, and then Mr. Lewis came, and corrected it as he would have it;
so I was neither at church nor Court. The Duke of Ormond and I dined at
Lord Orkney's. I left them at seven, and sat with Sir Andrew Fountaine,
who has a very bad sore leg, for which he designs to go to France. Fais,
here's a week gone, and one side of this letter not finished. Oh, but I
write now but once in three weeks; iss, fais, this shall go sooner. The
Parliament is to sit on the third, but will adjourn for three or four
days; for the Queen is laid up with the gout, and both Speakers out of
order, though one of them, the Lord Keeper, is almost well. I spoke
to the Duke of Ormond a good deal about Ireland. We do not altogether
agree, nor am I judge enough of Irish affairs; but I will speak to Lord
Treasurer to-morrow, that we three may settle them some way or other.
Nite sollahs both, rove Pdfr.

2. I had a letter some days ago from Moll Gery;(11) her name is now
Wigmore, and her husband has turned parson. She desires nothing but that
I would get Lord Keeper to give him a living; but I will send her no
answer, though she desires it much. She still makes mantuas at Farnham.
It rained all this day, and Dilly came to me, and was coaching it into
the City; so I went with him for a shaking, because it would not cost
me a farthing. There I met my friend Stratford,(12) the merchant, who
is going abroad to gather up his debts, and be clear in the world.
He begged that I would dine with some merchant friends of ours there,
because it was the last time I should see him: so I did, and thought to
have seen Lord Treasurer in the evening, but he happened to go out
at five; so I visited some friends, and came home. And now I have
the greatest part of your letter to answer; and yet I will not do it
to-night, say what oo please. The Parliament meets to-morrow, but will
be prorogued for a fortnight; which disappointment will, I believe, vex
abundance of them, though they are not Whigs; for they are forced to be
in town at expense for nothing: but we want an answer from Spain, before
we are sure of everything being right for the peace; and God knows
whether we can have that answer this month. It is a most ticklish
juncture of affairs; we are always driving to an inch: I am weary of it.
Nite MD.

3. The Parliament met, and was prorogued, as I said, and I found
some cloudy faces, and heard some grumbling. We have got over all
our difficulties with France, I think. They have now settled all the
articles of commerce between us and them, wherein they were very much
disposed to play the rogue if we had not held them to (it); and this
business we wait from Spain is to prevent some other rogueries of the
French, who are finding an evasion to trade to the Spanish West Indies;
but I hope we shall prevent it. I dined with Lord Treasurer, and he was
in good humour enough. I gave him that part of my book in manuscript to
read where his character was, and drawn pretty freely. He was reading
and correcting it with his pencil, when the Bishop of St. David's(13)
(now removing to Hereford) came in and interrupted us. I left him at
eight, and sat till twelve with the Provost and Bishop of Clogher at the
Provost's. Nite MD.

4. I was to-day at Court, but kept out of Lord Treasurer's way, because
I was engaged to the Duke of Ormond, where I dined, and, I think, ate
and drank too much. I sat this evening with Lady Masham, and then with
Lord Masham and Lord Treasurer at Lord Masham's. It was last year, you
may remember, my constant evening place. I saw Lady Jersey(14) with Lady
Masham, who has been laying out for my acquaintance, and has forced a
promise for me to drink chocolate with her in a day or two, which I know
not whether I shall perform (I have just mended my pen, you see), for I
do not much like her character; but she is very malicious, and therefore
I think I must keep fair with her. I cannot send this letter till
Saturday next, I find; so I will answer oors now. I see no different
days of the month; yet it is dated January 3: so it was long a coming.
I did not write to Dr. Coghill that I would have nothing in Ireland, but
that I was soliciting nothing anywhere, and that is true. I have named
Dr. Sterne to Lord Treasurer