he wisdom of this
is admirable; for I had given the Archbishop an account of my reception
from Mr. Harley, and how he had spoken to the Queen, and promised it
should be done; but Mr. Harley ordered me to tell no person alive. Some
time after, he gave me leave to let the Primate and Archbishop know that
the Queen had remitted the First-Fruits; and that in a short time they
should have an account of it in form from Lord Dartmouth, Secretary of
State. So while their letter was on the road to the Duke of Ormond and
Southwell, mine was going to them with an account of the thing being
done. I writ a very warm answer(25) to the Archbishop immediately; and
showed my resentments, as I ought, against the bishops; only, in good
manners, excepting himself. I wonder what they will say when they hear
the thing is done. I was yesterday forced to tell Southwell so, that
the Queen had done it, etc.; for he said, my Lord Duke would think of
it some months hence, when he was going for Ireland; and he had it three
years in doing formerly, without any success. I give you free leave to
say, on occasion, that it is done; and that Mr. Harley prevailed on the
Queen to do it, etc., as you please. As I hope to live, I despise the
credit of it, out of an excess of pride; and desire you will not give
me the least merit when you talk of it; but I would vex the bishops, and
have it spread that Mr. Harley had done it: pray do so. Your mother
sent me last night a parcel of wax candles, and a bandbox full of small
plumcakes. I thought it had been something for you; and, without opening
them, sent answer by the maid that brought them, that I would take care
to send the things, etc.; but I will write her thanks. Is this a long
letter, sirrahs? Now, are you satisfied? I have had no fit since the
first: I drink brandy every morning, and take pills every night. Never
fear, I an't vexed at this puppy business of the bishops, although I was
a little at first. I will tell you my reward: Mr. Harley will think he
has done me a favour; the Duke of Ormond, perhaps, that I have put a
neglect on him; and the bishops in Ireland, that I have done nothing at
all. So goes the world. But I have got above all this, and, perhaps, I
have better reason for it than they know: and so you shall hear no more
of First-Fruits, dukes, Harleys, archbishops, and Southwells.

I have slipped off Raymond upon some of his countrymen, to show him the
town, etc., and I lend him Patrick. He desires to sit with me in the
evenings; upon which I have given Patrick positive orders that I am not
within at evenings.




LETTER 10.

LONDON, Nov. 25, 1710.

I will tell you something that's plaguy silly: I had forgot to say on
the 23d in my last, where I dined; and because I had done it constantly,
I thought it was a great omission, and was going to interline it; but at
last the silliness of it made me cry, Pshah, and I let it alone. I was
to-day to see the Parliament meet; but only saw a great crowd; and Ford
and I went to see the tombs at Westminster, and sauntered so long I
was forced to go to an eating-house for my dinner. Bromley(1) is chosen
Speaker, nemine contradicente: Do you understand those two words?
And Pompey, Colonel Hill's(2) black, designs to stand Speaker for the
footmen.(3) I am engaged to use my interest for him, and have spoken to
Patrick to get him some votes. We are now all impatient for the Queen's
speech, what she will say about removing the Ministry, etc. I have got
a cold, and I don't know how; but got it I have, and am hoarse: I don't
know whether it will grow better or worse. What's that to you? I won't
answer your letter to-night. I'll keep you a little longer in suspense:
I can't send it. Your mother's cakes are very good, and one of them
serves me for a breakfast, and so I'll go sleep like a good boy.

26. I have got a cruel cold, and stayed within all this day in my
nightgown, and dined on sixpennyworth of victuals, and read and writ,
and was denied to everybody. Dr. Raymond(4) called often, and I was
denied; and at last, when I was weary, I let him come up, and asked him,
without consequence, how Patrick denied me, and whether he had the
art of it? So by this means he shall be used to have me denied to him;
otherwise he would be a plaguy trouble and hindrance to me: he has sat
with me two hours, and drank a pint of ale cost me fivepence, and smoked
his pipe, and it is now past eleven that he is just gone. Well, my
eighth is with you now, young women; and your seventh to me is somewhere
in a post-boy's bag; and so go to your gang of deans, and Stoytes, and
Walls, and lose your money; go, sauceboxes: and so good-night, and be
happy, dear rogues. Oh, but your box was sent to Dr. Hawkshaw by Sterne,
and you will have it with Hawkshaw, and spectacles, etc., etc.

27. To-day Mr. Harley met me in the Court of Requests,(5) and whispered
me to dine with him. At dinner I told him what those bishops had done,
and the difficulty I was under. He bid me never trouble myself; he would
tell the Duke of Ormond the business was done, and that he need not
concern himself about it. So now I 