he did not
like Sterne's business: however, I will serve him, because I suppose MD
would have me. But, in saying his dependence lies wholly on me, he lies,
and is a fool. I dined with Lord Abercorn, whose son Peasley(7) will be
married at Easter to ten thousand pounds.

3. I forgot to tell you that yesterday morning I was at Mr. Harley's
levee: he swore I came in spite, to see him among a parcel of fools.
My business was to desire I might let the Duke of Ormond know how the
affair stood of the First-Fruits. He promised to let him know it,
and engaged me to dine with him to-day. Every Saturday, Lord Keeper,
Secretary St. John, and I dine with him, and sometimes Lord Rivers; and
they let in none else. Patrick brought me some letters into the Park;
among which one was from Walls; and t'other, yes, faith, t'other was
from our little MD, N.11. I read the rest in the Park, and MD's in a
chair as I went from St. James's to Mr. Harley; and glad enough I was,
faith, to read it, and see all right. Oh, but I won't answer it these
three or four days at least, or may be sooner. An't I silly? faith, your
letters would make a dog silly, if I had a dog to be silly, but it must
be a little dog.--I stayed with Mr. Harley till past nine, where we had
much discourse together after the rest were gone; and I gave him very
truly my opinion where he desired it. He complained he was not very
well, and has engaged me to dine with him again on Monday. So I came
home afoot, like a fine gentleman, to tell you all this.

4. I dined to-day with Mr. Secretary St. John; and after dinner he had
a note from Mr. Harley, that he was much out of order.(8) Pray God
preserve his health! everything depends upon it. The Parliament at
present cannot go a step without him, nor the Queen neither. I long
to be in Ireland; but the Ministry beg me to stay: however, when this
Parliament lurry(9) is over, I will endeavour to steal away; by which
time I hope the First-Fruit business will be done. This kingdom is
certainly ruined as much as was ever any bankrupt merchant. We must have
peace, let it be a bad or a good one, though nobody dares talk of it.
The nearer I look upon things, the worse I like them. I believe
the confederacy will soon break to pieces, and our factions at home
increase. The Ministry is upon a very narrow bottom, and stand like an
isthmus, between the Whigs on one side, and violent Tories on the other.
They are able seamen; but the tempest is too great, the ship too rotten,
and the crew all against them. Lord Somers has been twice in the Queen's
closet, once very lately; and your Duchess of Somerset,(10) who now has
the key, is a most insinuating woman; and I believe they will endeavour
to play the same game that has been played against them.--I have told
them of all this, which they know already, but they cannot help it.
They have cautioned the Queen so much against being governed, that she
observes it too much. I could talk till to-morrow upon these things, but
they make me melancholy. I could not but observe that lately, after much
conversation with Mr. Harley, though he is the most fearless man alive,
and the least apt to despond, he confessed to me that uttering his mind
to me gave him ease.

5. Mr. Harley continues out of order, yet his affairs force him abroad:
he is subject to a sore throat, and was cupped last night: I sent and
called two or three times. I hear he is better this evening. I dined
to-day in the City with Dr. Freind at a third body's house, where I was
to pass for somebody else; and there was a plaguy silly jest carried on,
that made me sick of it. Our weather grows fine, and I will walk like
camomile. And pray walk you to your Dean's, or your Stoyte's, or your
Manley's, or your Walls'. But your new lodgings make you so proud, you
will walk less than ever. Come, let me go to bed, sirrahs.

6. Mr. Harley's going out yesterday has put him a little backwards. I
called twice, and sent, for I am in pain for him. Ford caught me, and
made me dine with him on his Opera-day; so I brought Mr. Lewis with
me, and sat with him till six. I have not seen Mr. Addison these three
weeks; all our friendship is over. I go to no Coffee-house. I presented
a parson of the Bishop of Clogher's, one Richardson,(11) to the Duke of
Ormond to-day: he is translating prayers and sermons into Irish, and has
a project about instructing the Irish in the Protestant religion.

7. Morning. Faith, a little would make me, I could find in my heart, if
it were not for one thing, I have a good mind, if I had not something
else to do, I would answer your dear saucy letter. O, Lord, I am going
awry with writing in bed. O, faith, but I must answer it, or I shan't
have room, for it must go on Saturday; and don't think I will fill the
third side, I an't come to that yet, young women. Well then, as for your
Bernage, I have said enough: I writ to him last week.--Turn over that
leaf. Now, what says MD to the world to come? I tell you, Madam Stella,
my head is a great deal better, and I hope will keep so. How came yours
to be fifteen days coming, and you had my fifteenth in seven? 