rvants, and a small house, and no coach.(25) I like her tolerably as
yet. Nite MD.

10.(11) I made visits this morning to the Duke and Duchess of Ormond,
and Lady Betty, and the Duchess of Hamilton. (When I was writing this
near twelve o'clock, the Duchess of Hamilton sent to have me dine with
her to-morrow. I am forced to give my answer through the door, for my
man has got the key, and is gone to bed; but I cannot obey her, for our
Society meets to-morrow.) I stole away from Lord Treasurer by eight, and
intended to have passed the evening with Sir Thomas Clarges(26) and his
lady; but met them in another place, and have there sat till now. My
head has not been ill to-day. I was at Court, and made Lord Mansel walk
with me in the Park before we went to dinner.--Yesterday and to-day have
been fair, but yet it rained all last night. I saw Sterne staring at
Court to-day. He has been often to see me, he says: but my man has
not yet let him up. He is in deep mourning; I hope it is not for his
wife.(27) I did not ask him. Nite MD.

12.(28) I have reckoned days wrong all this while; for this is the
twelfth. I do not know when I lost it. I dined to-day with our Society,
the greatest dinner I have ever seen. It was at Jack Hill's, the
Governor of Dunkirk. I gave an account of sixty guineas I had collected,
and am to give them away to two authors to-morrow; and Lord Treasurer
has promised us a hundred pounds to reward some others. I found a letter
on my table last night to tell me that poor little Harrison, the Queen's
Secretary, that came lately from Utrecht with the Barrier Treaty, was
ill, and desired to see me at night; but it was late, and I could not
go till to-day. I have often mentioned him in my letters, you may
remember.... I went in the morning, and found him mighty ill, and got
thirty guineas for him from Lord Bolingbroke, and an order for a hundred
pounds from the Treasury to be paid him to-morrow; and I have got him
removed to Knightsbridge for air. He has a fever and inflammation on his
lungs; but I hope will do well. Nite.

13. I was to see a poor poet, one Mr. Diaper,(29) in a nasty garret,
very sick. I gave him twenty guineas from Lord Bolingbroke, and disposed
the other sixty to two other authors, and desired a friend to receive
the hundred pounds for poor Harrison, and will carry it to him to-morrow
morning. I sent to see how he did, and he is extremely ill; and I
very much afflicted for him, for he is my own creature, and in a very
honourable post, and very worthy of it. I dined in the City. I am in
much concern for this poor lad. His mother and sister attend him, and he
wants nothing. Nite poo dee MD.

14. I took Parnell this morning, and we walked to see poor Harrison.
I had the hundred pounds in my pocket. I told Parnell I was afraid to
knock at the door; my mind misgave me. I knocked, and his man in tears
told me his master was dead an hour before. Think what grief this is to
me! I went to his mother, and have been ordering things for his funeral
with as little cost as possible, to-morrow at ten at night. Lord
Treasurer was much concerned when I told him. I could not dine with Lord
Treasurer, nor anywhere else; but got a bit of meat toward evening. No
loss ever grieved me so much: poor creature! Pray God Almighty bless
poor MD. Adieu.

I send this away to-night, and am sorry it must go while I am in so much
grief.




LETTER 60.(1)

LONDON, Feb. 15 (1712-13).

I dined to-day with Mr. Rowe(2) and a projector, who has been teasing
me with twenty schemes to get grants; and I don't like one of them; and,
besides, I was out of humour for the loss of poor Harrison. At ten
this night I was at his funeral, which I ordered to be as private as
possible. We had but one coach with four of us; and when it was carrying
us home after the funeral, the braces broke; and we were forced to sit
in it, and have it held up, till my man went for chairs,(3) at eleven at
night in terrible rain. I am come home very melancholy, and will go to
bed. Nite... MD.(4)

16. I dined to-day with Lord Dupplin and some company to divert me; but
left them early, and have been reading a foolish book for amusement. I
shall never have courage again to care for making anybody's fortune. The
Parliament meets to-morrow, and will be prorogued another fortnight,
at which several of both parties were angry; but it cannot be helped,
though everything about the peace is past all danger. I never saw such
a continuance of rainy weather. We have not had two fair days together
these ten weeks. I have not dined with Lord Treasurer these four days,
nor can I till Saturday; for I have several engagements till then,
and he will chide me to some purpose. I am perplexed with this hundred
pounds of poor Harrison's, what to do with it. I cannot pay his
relations till they administer, for he is much in debt;(5) but I will
have the staff in my own hands, and venture nothing. Nite poo dee MD.

17. Lady Jersey and I dined by appointment to-day with Lord Bolingbroke.
He is sending his brother(6) to succeed Mr.(7) Harrison. It is the
prettiest post in Europe for a young gentlema