ee or four times every day.
I went into the City for a walk, and dined there with a private man; and
coming home this evening, broke my shin in the Strand over a tub of sand
left just in the way. I got home dirty enough, and went straight to
bed, where I have been cooking it with gold-beater's skin, and have been
peevish enough with Patrick, who was near an hour bringing a rag from
next door. It is my right shin, where never any humour fell when t'other
used to swell; so I apprehend it less: however, I shall not stir till
'tis well, which I reckon will be in a week. I am very careful in these
sort of things; but I wish I had Mrs. J----'s water:(2) she is out
of town, and I must make a shift with alum. I will dine with Mrs.
Vanhomrigh till I am well, who lives but five doors off; and that I may
venture.

14. My journals are like to be very diverting, now I cannot stir abroad,
between accounts of Mr. Harley's mending, and of my broken shin. I just
walked to my neighbour Vanhomrigh at two, and came away at six, when
little Harrison the Tatler came to me, and begged me to dictate a paper
to him, which I was forced in charity to do. Mr. Harley still mends;
and I hope in a day or two to trouble you no more with him, nor with my
shin. Go to bed and sleep, sirrahs, that you may rise to-morrow and walk
to Donnybrook, and lose your money with Stoyte and the Dean; do so,
dear little rogues, and drink Presto's health. O pray, don't you drink
Presto's health sometimes with your deans, and your Stoytes, and your
Walls, and your Manleys, and your everybodies, pray now? I drink MD's to
myself a hundred thousand times.

15. I was this morning at Mr. Secretary St. John's for all my shin; and
he has given me for young Harrison the Tatler the prettiest employment
in Europe; secretary to my Lord Raby,(3) who is to be Ambassador
Extraordinary at the Hague, where all the great affairs will be
concerted; so we shall lose the Tatlers in a fortnight. I will send
Harrison to-morrow morning to thank the Secretary. Poor Biddy Floyd(4)
has got the smallpox. I called this morning to see Lady Betty Germaine,
and when she told me so, I fairly took my leave. I have the luck of
it;(5) for about ten days ago I was to see Lord Carteret;(6) and my lady
was entertaining me with telling of a young lady, a cousin, who was then
ill in the house of the smallpox, and is since dead: it was near Lady
Betty's, and I fancy Biddy took the fright by it. I dined with Mr.
Secretary; and a physician came in just from Guiscard, who tells us he
is dying of his wounds, and can hardly live till to-morrow. A poor wench
that Guiscard kept, sent him a bottle of sack; but the keeper would
not let him touch it, for fear it was poison. He had two quarts of old
clotted blood come out of his side to-day, and is delirious. I am sorry
he is dying; for they had found out a way to hang him. He certainly had
an intention to murder the Queen.

16. I have made but little progress in this letter for so many days,
thanks to Guiscard and Mr. Harley; and it would be endless to tell you
all the particulars of that odious fact. I do not yet hear that Guiscard
is dead, but they say 'tis impossible he should recover. I walked too
much yesterday for a man with a broken shin; to-day I rested, and went
no farther than Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, where I dined; and Lady Betty Butler
coming in about six, I was forced in good manners to sit with her till
nine; then I came home, and Mr. Ford came in to visit my shin, and sat
with me till eleven: so I have been very idle and naughty. It vexes me
to the pluck(7) that I should lose walking this delicious day. Have
you seen the Spectator(8) yet, a paper that comes out every day? 'Tis
written by Mr. Steele, who seems to have gathered new life, and have a
new fund of wit; it is in the same nature as his Tatlers, and they have
all of them had something pretty. I believe Addison and he club. I never
see them; and I plainly told Mr. Harley and Mr. St. John, ten days ago,
before my Lord Keeper and Lord Rivers, that I had been foolish enough
to spend my credit with them in favour of Addison and Steele; but that
I would engage and promise never to say one word in their behalf, having
been used so ill for what I had already done.--So, now I am got into the
way of prating again, there will be no quiet for me.

     When Presto begins to prate,
     Give him a rap upon the pate.

O Lord, how I blot! it is time to leave off, etc.

17. Guiscard died this morning at two; and the coroner's inquest have
found that he was killed by bruises received from a messenger, so to
clear the Cabinet Councillors from whom he received his wounds. I had a
letter from Raymond, who cannot hear of your box; but I hope you have
it before this comes to your hands. I dined to-day with Mr. Lewis of the
Secretary's office. Mr. Harley has abundance of extravasated blood comes
from his breast out of his wound, and will not be well so soon as we
expected. I had something to say, but cannot call it to mind. (What was
it?)

18. I was to-day at Court to look for the Duke of Argyle, and gave him
the memorial about Be