ach
side of the wall being five hundred feet long.  The two great streets,
which run across and divide it into four quarters, are five feet wide.
The lanes and alleys, which I could not enter, but only view them as I
passed, are from twelve to eighteen inches.  The town is capable of
holding five hundred thousand souls: the houses are from three to five
stories: the shops and markets well provided.

The emperor’s palace is in the centre of the city where the two great
streets meet.  It is enclosed by a wall of two feet high, and twenty feet
distance from the buildings.  I had his majesty’s permission to step over
this wall; and, the space being so wide between that and the palace, I
could easily view it on every side.  The outward court is a square of
forty feet, and includes two other courts: in the inmost are the royal
apartments, which I was very desirous to see, but found it extremely
difficult; for the great gates, from one square into another, were but
eighteen inches high, and seven inches wide.  Now the buildings of the
outer court were at least five feet high, and it was impossible for me to
stride over them without infinite damage to the pile, though the walls
were strongly built of hewn stone, and four inches thick.  At the same
time the emperor had a great desire that I should see the magnificence of
his palace; but this I was not able to do till three days after, which I
spent in cutting down with my knife some of the largest trees in the
royal park, about a hundred yards distant from the city.  Of these trees
I made two stools, each about three feet high, and strong enough to bear
my weight.  The people having received notice a second time, I went again
through the city to the palace with my two stools in my hands.  When I
came to the side of the outer court, I stood upon one stool, and took the
other in my hand; this I lifted over the roof, and gently set it down on
the space between the first and second court, which was eight feet wide.
I then stept over the building very conveniently from one stool to the
other, and drew up the first after me with a hooked stick.  By this
contrivance I got into the inmost court; and, lying down upon my side, I
applied my face to the windows of the middle stories, which were left
open on purpose, and discovered the most splendid apartments that can be
imagined.  There I saw the empress and the young princes, in their
several lodgings, with their chief attendants about them.  Her imperial
majesty was pleased to smile very graciously upon me, and gave me out of
the window her hand to kiss.

But I shall not anticipate the reader with further descriptions of this
kind, because I reserve them for a greater work, which is now almost
ready for the press; containing a general description of this empire,
from its first erection, through along series of princes; with a
particular account of their wars and politics, laws, learning, and
religion; their plants and animals; their peculiar manners and customs,
with other matters very curious and useful; my chief design at present
being only to relate such events and transactions as happened to the
public or to myself during a residence of about nine months in that
empire.

One morning, about a fortnight after I had obtained my liberty,
Reldresal, principal secretary (as they style him) for private affairs,
came to my house attended only by one servant.  He ordered his coach to
wait at a distance, and desired I would give him an hours audience; which
I readily consented to, on account of his quality and personal merits, as
well as of the many good offices he had done me during my solicitations
at court.  I offered to lie down that he might the more conveniently
reach my ear, but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during
our conversation.  He began with compliments on my liberty; said “he
might pretend to some merit in it;” but, however, added, “that if it had
not been for the present situation of things at court, perhaps I might
not have obtained it so soon.  For,” said he, “as flourishing a condition
as we may appear to be in to foreigners, we labour under two mighty
evils: a violent faction at home, and the danger of an invasion, by a
most potent enemy, from abroad.  As to the first, you are to understand,
that for about seventy moons past there have been two struggling parties
in this empire, under the names of _Tramecksan_ and _Slamecksan_, from
the high and low heels of their shoes, by which they distinguish
themselves.  It is alleged, indeed, that the high heels are most
agreeable to our ancient constitution; but, however this be, his majesty
has determined to make use only of low heels in the administration of the
government, and all offices in the gift of the crown, as you cannot but
observe; and particularly that his majesty’s imperial heels are lower at
least by a _drurr_ than any of his court (_drurr_ is a measure about the
fourteenth part of an inch).  The animosities between these two parties
run so high, that they will neither eat, nor drink, nor talk with each
other.  We compute the _Tramecksan_, or high heels, to e