opy out some papers I intend for Mr. Harley, whom I am to see, as I
told you, to-morrow afternoon; so that this night I shall say little to
MD, but that I heartily wish myself with them, and will come as soon as
I either fail, or compass my business. We now hear daily of elections;
and, in a list I saw yesterday of about twenty, there are seven or eight
more Tories than in the last Parliament; so that I believe they need
not fear a majority, with the help of those who will vote as the Court
pleases. But I have been told that Mr. Harley himself would not let
the Tories be too numerous, for fear they should be insolent, and
kick against him; and for that reason they have kept several Whigs
in employments, who expected to be turned out every day; as Sir John
Holland the Comptroller, and many others. And so get you gone to your
cards, and your claret and orange, at the Dean's; and I'll go write.

7. I wonder when this letter will be finished: it must go by Tuesday,
that's certain; and if I have one from MD before, I will not answer it,
that's as certain too. 'Tis now morning, and I did not finish my papers
for Mr. Harley last night; for you must understand Presto was sleepy,
and made blunders and blots. Very pretty that I must be writing to young
women in a morning fresh and fasting, faith. Well, good-morrow to
you; and so I go to business, and lay aside this paper till night,
sirrahs.--At night. Jack How(33) told Harley that if there were a lower
place in hell than another, it was reserved for his porter, who tells
lies so gravely, and with so civil a manner. This porter I have had to
deal with, going this evening at four to visit Mr. Harley, by his own
appointment. But the fellow told me no lie, though I suspected every
word he said. He told me his master was just gone to dinner, with much
company, and desired I would come an hour hence: which I did, expecting
to hear Mr. Harley was gone out; but they had just done dinner. Mr.
Harley came out to me, brought me in, and presented to me his son-in-law
Lord Doblane(34) (or some such name) and his own son,(35) and, among
others, Will Penn(36) the Quaker: we sat two hours drinking as good wine
as you do; and two hours more he and I alone; where he heard me tell my
business; entered into it with all kindness; asked for my powers, and
read them; and read likewise a memorial(37) I had drawn up, and put it
in his pocket to show the Queen; told me the measures he would take;
and, in short, said everything I could wish: told me, he must bring Mr.
St. John(38) (Secretary of State) and me acquainted; and spoke so many
things of personal kindness and esteem for me, that I am inclined half
to believe what some friends have told me, that he would do everything
to bring me over. He has desired to dine with me (what a comical mistake
was that!). I mean he has desired me to dine with him on Tuesday; and
after four hours being with him, set me down at St. James's Coffee-house
in a hackney-coach. All this is odd and comical, if you consider him and
me. He knew my Christian name very well. I could not forbear saying thus
much upon this matter, although you will think it tedious. But I'll tell
you; you must know, 'tis fatal(39) to me to be a scoundrel and a prince
the same day: for, being to see him at four, I could not engage myself
to dine at any friend's; so I went to Tooke,(40) to give him a ballad,
and dine with him; but he was not at home: so I was forced to go to
a blind(41) chop-house, and dine for tenpence upon gill-ale,(42) bad
broth, and three chops of mutton; and then go reeking from thence to the
First Minister of State. And now I am going in charity to send Steele
a Tatler, who is very low of late. I think I am civiller than I used
to be; and have not used the expression of "you in Ireland" and "we
in England" as I did when I was here before, to your great
indignation.--They may talk of the you know what;(43) but, gad, if it
had not been for that, I should never have been able to get the access I
have had; and if that helps me to succeed, then that same thing will be
serviceable to the Church. But how far we must depend upon new friends,
I have learnt by long practice, though I think among great Ministers,
they are just as good as old ones. And so I think this important day has
made a great hole in this side of the paper; and the fiddle-faddles of
tomorrow and Monday will make up the rest; and, besides, I shall see
Harley on Tuesday before this letter goes.

8. I must tell you a great piece of refinement(44) of Harley. He charged
me to come to him often: I told him I was loth to trouble him in so much
business as he had, and desired I might have leave to come at his levee;
which he immediately refused, and said, that was not a place for friends
to come to. 'Tis now but morning; and I have got a foolish trick, I must
say something to MD when I wake, and wish them a good-morrow; for this
is not a shaving-day, Sunday, so I have time enough: but get you gone,
you rogues, I must go write: Yes, 'twill vex me to the blood if any
of these long letters should miscarry: if they do, I will shrink 