, and have taken, I believe, a hundred and fifty already. The Queen,
Lord Treasurer, Lady Masham, and I, were all ill together, but are now
all better; only Lady Masham expects every day to lie in at Kensington.
There was never such a lump of lies spread about the town together as
now. I doubt not but you will have them in Dublin before this comes to
you, and all without the least grounds of truth. I have been mightily
put backward in something I am writing by my illness, but hope to fetch
it up, so as to be ready when the Parliament meets. Lord Treasurer has
had an ugly fit of the rheumatism, but is now near quite well. I was
playing at one-and-thirty with him and his family t'other night. He
gave us all twelvepence apiece to begin with: it put me in mind of Sir
William Temple.(2) I asked both him and Lady Masham seriously whether
the Queen were at all inclined to a dropsy, and they positively assured
me she was not: so did her physician Arbuthnot, who always attends her.
Yet these devils have spread that she has holes in her legs, and runs
at her navel, and I know not what. Arbuthnot has sent me from Windsor a
pretty Discourse upon Lying, and I have ordered the printer to come for
it. It is a proposal for publishing a curious piece, called The Art of
Political Lying, in two volumes, etc. And then there is an abstract of
the first volume, just like those pamphlets which they call The Works of
the Learned.(3) Pray get it when it comes out. The Queen has a little of
the gout in one of her hands. I believe she will stay a month still at
Windsor. Lord Treasurer showed me the kindest letter from her in the
world, by which I picked out one secret, that there will be soon
made some Knights of the Garter. You know another is fallen by Lord
Godolphin's death: he will be buried in a day or two at Westminster
Abbey. I saw Tom Leigh(4) in town once. The Bishop of Clogher has taken
his lodging for the winter; they are all well. I hear there are in town
abundance of people from Ireland; half a dozen bishops at least. The
poor old Bishop of London,(5) at past fourscore, fell down backward
going upstairs, and I think broke or cracked his skull; yet is now
recovering. The town is as empty as at midsummer; and if I had not
occasion for physic, I would be at Windsor still. Did I tell you of Lord
Rivers's will? He has left legacies to about twenty paltry old whores by
name, and not a farthing to any friend, dependent, or relation: he has
left from his only child, Lady Barrymore,(6) her mother's estate, and
given the whole to his heir-male, a popish priest, a second cousin, who
is now Earl Rivers, and whom he used in his life like a footman. After
him it goes to his chief wench and bastard. Lord Treasurer and Lord
Chamberlain are executors of this hopeful will. I loved the man, and
detest his memory. We hear nothing of peace yet: I believe verily the
Dutch are so wilful, because they are told the Queen cannot live. I had
poor MD's letter, N.3,(7) at Windsor: but I could not answer it
then; poor Pdfr was vely kick(8) then: and, besides, it was a very
inconvenient place to send letters from. Oo thought to come home
the same day, and stayed a month: that was a sign the place was
agreeable.(9) I should love such a sort of jaunt. Is that lad
Swanton(10) a little more fixed than he used to be? I think you like
the girl very well. She has left off her grave airs, I suppose. I am now
told Lord Godolphin was buried last night.--O poo Ppt! lay down oo head
aden, fais I...; I always reckon if oo are ill I shall hear it, and
therefore hen oo are silent I reckon all is well.(11) I believe I
'scaped the new fever(12) for the same reason that Ppt did, because I am
not well; but why should DD 'scape it, pray? She is melthigal, oo know,
and ought to have the fever; but I hope it is now too late, and she
won't have it at all. Some physicians here talk very melancholy, and
think it foreruns the plague, which is actually at Hamburg. I hoped Ppt
would have done with her illness; but I think we both have that faculty
never to part with a disorder for ever; we are very constant. I have had
my giddiness twenty-three years by fits. Will Mrs. Raymond never have
done lying-in? He intends to leave beggars enough; for I daresay he has
squandered away the best part of his fortune already, and is not out of
debt. I had a letter from him lately.

Oct. 11. Lord Treasurer sent for me yesterday and the day before to sit
with him, because he is not yet quite well enough to go abroad; and I
could not finish my letter. How the deuce come I to be so exact in ME
money? Just seventeen shillings and eightpence more than due; I believe
you cheat me. If Hawkshaw does not pay the interest I will have the
principal; pray speak to Parvisol and have his advice what I should do
about it. Service to Mrs. Stoyte and Catherine and Mrs. Walls. Ppt
makes a petition with many apologies. John Danvers, you know, is Lady
Giffard's friend. The rest I never heard of. I tell you what, as things
are at present, I cannot possibly speak to Lord Treasurer for anybody.
I need tell you no more. Something or no