  I was told that
a great court lady, who had several children,—is married to the prime
minister, the richest subject in the kingdom, a very graceful person,
extremely fond of her, and lives in the finest palace of the island,—went
down to Lagado on the pretence of health, there hid herself for several
months, till the king sent a warrant to search for her; and she was found
in an obscure eating-house all in rags, having pawned her clothes to
maintain an old deformed footman, who beat her every day, and in whose
company she was taken, much against her will.  And although her husband
received her with all possible kindness, and without the least reproach,
she soon after contrived to steal down again, with all her jewels, to the
same gallant, and has not been heard of since.

This may perhaps pass with the reader rather for an European or English
story, than for one of a country so remote.  But he may please to
consider, that the caprices of womankind are not limited by any climate
or nation, and that they are much more uniform, than can be easily
imagined.

In about a month’s time, I had made a tolerable proficiency in their
language, and was able to answer most of the king’s questions, when I had
the honour to attend him.  His majesty discovered not the least curiosity
to inquire into the laws, government, history, religion, or manners of
the countries where I had been; but confined his questions to the state
of mathematics, and received the account I gave him with great contempt
and indifference, though often roused by his flapper on each side.



CHAPTER III.


A phenomenon solved by modern philosophy and astronomy.  The Laputians’
great improvements in the latter.  The king’s method of suppressing
insurrections.

I desired leave of this prince to see the curiosities of the island,
which he was graciously pleased to grant, and ordered my tutor to attend
me.  I chiefly wanted to know, to what cause, in art or in nature, it
owed its several motions, whereof I will now give a philosophical account
to the reader.

The flying or floating island is exactly circular, its diameter 7837
yards, or about four miles and a half, and consequently contains ten
thousand acres.  It is three hundred yards thick.  The bottom, or under
surface, which appears to those who view it below, is one even regular
plate of adamant, shooting up to the height of about two hundred yards.
Above it lie the several minerals in their usual order, and over all is a
coat of rich mould, ten or twelve feet deep.  The declivity of the upper
surface, from the circumference to the centre, is the natural cause why
all the dews and rains, which fall upon the island, are conveyed in small
rivulets toward the middle, where they are emptied into four large
basins, each of about half a mile in circuit, and two hundred yards
distant from the centre.  From these basins the water is continually
exhaled by the sun in the daytime, which effectually prevents their
overflowing.  Besides, as it is in the power of the monarch to raise the
island above the region of clouds and vapours, he can prevent the falling
of dews and rain whenever he pleases.  For the highest clouds cannot rise
above two miles, as naturalists agree, at least they were never known to
do so in that country.

At the centre of the island there is a chasm about fifty yards in
diameter, whence the astronomers descend into a large dome, which is
therefore called _flandona gagnole_, or the astronomer’s cave, situated
at the depth of a hundred yards beneath the upper surface of the adamant.
In this cave are twenty lamps continually burning, which, from the
reflection of the adamant, cast a strong light into every part.  The
place is stored with great variety of sextants, quadrants, telescopes,
astrolabes, and other astronomical instruments.  But the greatest
curiosity, upon which the fate of the island depends, is a loadstone of a
prodigious size, in shape resembling a weaver’s shuttle.  It is in length
six yards, and in the thickest part at least three yards over.  This
magnet is sustained by a very strong axle of adamant passing through its
middle, upon which it plays, and is poised so exactly that the weakest
hand can turn it.  It is hooped round with a hollow cylinder of adamant,
four feet yards in diameter, placed horizontally, and supported by eight
adamantine feet, each six yards high.  In the middle of the concave side,
there is a groove twelve inches deep, in which the extremities of the
axle are lodged, and turned round as there is occasion.

The stone cannot be removed from its place by any force, because the hoop
and its feet are one continued piece with that body of adamant which
constitutes the bottom of the island.

By means of this loadstone, the island is made to rise and fall, and move
from one place to another.  For, with respect to that part of the earth
over which the monarch presides, the stone is endued at one of its sides
with an attractive power, and at the other with a repulsive.  Upon
placing the magnet erect, with its attracting end towards the earth, the
island descends; but when the rep