ndication of
the Duke of Marlborough, entirely by the same woman; Comment on Hare's
Sermon by the same woman, only hints sent to the printer from Presto to
give her.(15) Then there's the Miscellany, an apron for Stella, a pound
of chocolate, without sugar, for Stella, a fine snuff-rasp of ivory,
given me by Mrs. St. John for Dingley, and a large roll of tobacco,
which she must hide or cut shorter out of modesty, and four pair of
spectacles for the Lord knows who. There's the cargo, I hope it will
come safe. Oh, Mrs. Masham and I are very well; we write to one another,
but it is upon business; I believe I told you so before: pray pardon my
forgetfulness in these cases; poor Presto can't help it. MD shall have
the money as soon as Tooke gets it. And so I think I have answered all,
and the paper is out, and now I have fetched up my week, and will
send you another this day fortnight.--Why, you rogues, two crowns make
TENCH-ILL-LING:(16) you are so dull you could never have found it out.
Farewell, etc. etc.




LETTER 34.

LONDON, Nov. 3, 1711.

My thirty-third lies now before me just finished, and I am going to seal
and send it, so let me know whether you would have me add anything: I
gave you my journal of this day; and it is now nine at night, and I am
going to be busy for an hour or two.

4. I left a friend's house to-day where I was invited, just when dinner
was setting on, and pretended I was engaged, because I saw some fellows
I did not know; and went to Sir Matthew Dudley's, where I had the same
inconvenience, but he would not let me go; otherwise I would have gone
home, and sent for a slice of mutton and a pot of ale, rather than dine
with persons unknown, as bad, for aught I know, as your deans, parsons,
and curates. Bad slabby weather to-day.--Now methinks I write at ease,
when I have no letter of MD's to answer. But I mistook, and have got the
large paper. The Queen is laid up with the gout at Hampton Court: she
is now seldom without it any long time together; I fear it will wear her
out in a very few years. I plainly find I have less twitchings about my
toes since these Ministers are sick and out of town, and that I don't
dine with them. I would compound for a light easy gout to be perfectly
well in my head.--Pray walk when the frost comes, young ladies go a
frost-biting. It comes into my head, that, from the very time you first
went to Ireland, I have been always plying you to walk and read. The
young fellows here have begun a kind of fashion to walk, and many of
them have got swingeing strong shoes on purpose; it has got as far as
several young lords; if it hold, it would be a very good thing. Lady
Lucy(1) and I are fallen out; she rails at me, and I have left visiting
her.

5. MD was very troublesome to me last night in my sleep; I was a
dreamed, methought, that Stella was here. I asked her after Dingley, and
she said she had left her in Ireland, because she designed her stay to
be short, and such stuff.--Monsieur Pontchartain, the Secretary of State
in France, and Monsieur Fontenelle, the Secretary of the Royal Academy
there (who writ the Dialogues des Morts, etc.), have sent letters to
Lord Pembroke that the Academy have, with the King's consent, chosen
him one of their members in the room of one who is lately dead. But the
cautious gentleman has given me the letters to show my Lord Dartmouth
and Mr. St. John, our two Secretaries, and let them see there is no
treason in them; which I will do on Wednesday, when they come from
Hampton Court. The letters are very handsome, and it is a very great
mark of honour and distinction to Lord Pembroke. I hear the two French
Ministers are come over again about the peace; but I have seen nobody
of consequence to know the truth. I dined to-day with a lady of my
acquaintance, who was sick, in her bed-chamber, upon three herrings and
a chicken: the dinner was my bespeaking. We begin now to have chestnuts
and Seville oranges; have you the latter yet? 'Twas a terrible windy
day, and we had processions in carts of the Pope and the Devil, and the
butchers rang their cleavers. You know this is the Fifth of November,
Popery and gunpowder.

6. Since I am used to this way of writing, I fancy I could hardly make
out a long letter to MD without it. I think I ought to allow for every
line taken up by telling you where I dined; but that will not be above
seven lines in all, half a line to a dinner. Your Ingoldsby(2) is going
over, and they say here he is to be made a lord.--Here was I staying in
my room till two this afternoon for that puppy Sir Andrew Fountaine, who
was to go with me into the City, and never came; and if I had not shot
a dinner flying, with one Mr. Murray, I might have fasted, or gone to an
alehouse.--You never said one word of Goody Stoyte in your letter; but
I suppose these winter nights we shall hear more of her. Does the
Provost(3) laugh as much as he used to do? We reckon him here a
good-for-nothing fellow.--I design to write to your Dean one of these
days, but I can never find time, nor what to say.--I will think of
something: but if DD(4) were not in Ireland I belie