ightily in Lord
Anglesea's favour. You may tell the Bishop and Walls so; I said to Lord
Anglesea that I was (glad) I had the good luck to recommend him, etc. I
dined in the City with my printer, to consult with him about some papers
Lord Treasurer gave me last night, as he always does, too late; however,
I will do something with them. My third cold is a little better; I never
had anything like it before, three colds successively; I hope I shall
have the fourth.(13) Those messengers come from Holland to-day, and they
brought over the six packets that were due. I know not the particulars
yet, for when I was with the Secretary at noon they were just opening;
but one thing I find, that the Dutch are playing us tricks, and
tampering with the French; they are dogs; I shall know more tomollow...
MD.(14)

13. I dined to-day privately with my friend Lewis, at his lodgings, to
consult about some observations on the Barrier Treaty. Our news from
Holland is not good. The French raise difficulties, and make such offers
to the Allies as cannot be accepted. And the Dutch are uneasy that we
are likely to get anything for ourselves; and the Whigs are glad at all
this. I came home early, and have been very busy three or four hours. I
had a letter from Dr. Pratt(15) to-day by a private hand, recommending
the bearer to me, for something that I shall not trouble myself about.
Wesley(16) writ to recommend the same fellow to me. His expression is
that, hearing I am acquainted with my Lord Treasurer, he desires I would
do so and so: a matter of nothing. What puppies are mankind! I hope
I shall be wiser when I have once done with Courts. I think you han't
troubled me much with your recommendations. I would do you all the
saavis(17) I could.

Pray have you got your aplon,(18) maram Ppt? I paid for it but
yesterday; that puts me in mind of it. I writ an inventory of what
things I sent by Leigh in one of my letters; did you compare it with
what you got? I hear nothing of your cards now; do you never play? Yes,
at Ballygall. Go to bed. Nite, deelest MD.(19)

14. Our Society dined to-day at Mr. Secretary's house. I went there at
four; but hearing the House of Commons would sit late upon the Barrier
Treaty, I went for an hour to Kensington, to see Lord Masham's children.
My young nephew,(20) his son of six months old, has got a swelling in
his neck; I fear it is the evil. We did not go to dinner till eight at
night, and I left them at ten. The Commons have been very severe on the
Barrier Treaty, as you will find by their votes. A Whig member took out
the Conduct of the Allies, and read that passage about the succession
with great resentment; but none seconded him. The Church party carried
every vote by a great majority. The A.B.(21) Dublin is so railed at by
all who come from Ireland that I can defend him no longer. Lord Anglesea
assured me that the story of applying Piso out of Tacitus(22) to Lord
Treasurer's being wounded is true. I believe the Duke of Beaufort will
be admitted to our Society next meeting. To-day I published the Fable
of Midas,(23) a poem, printed in a loose half-sheet of paper. I know not
how it will sell; but it passed wonderfully at our Society to-night; and
Mr. Secretary read it before me the other night to Lord Treasurer, at
Lord Masham's, where they equally approved of it. Tell me how it passes
with you. I think this paper is larger than ordinary; for here is six
days' journal, and no nearer the bottom. I fear these journals are very
dull. Nite my deelest lives.

15. Mr. Lewis and I dined by invitation with a Scotch acquaintance,
after I had been very busy in my chamber till two afternoon. My third
cold is now very troublesome on my breast, especially in the morning.
This is a great revolution in my health; colds never used to return so
soon with me, or last so long. 'Tis very surprising this news to-day of
the Dauphin and Dauphiness both dying within six days. They say the old
King is almost heart-broke. He has had prodigious mortifications in his
family. The Dauphin has left two little sons, of four and two years old;
the eldest is sick. There is a foolish story got about the town that
Lord Strafford, one of our Plenipotentiaries, is in the interests of
France; and it has been a good while said that Lord Privy Seal(24) and
he do not agree very well. They are both long practised in business, but
neither of them of much parts. Strafford has some life and spirit, but
is infinitely proud, and wholly illiterate. Nite, MD.

16. I dined to-day in the City with my printer, to finish something I
am doing about the Barrier Treaty;(25) but it is not quite done. I went
this evening to Lord Masham's, where Lord Treasurer sat with us till
past twelve. The Lords have voted an Address to the Queen, to tell
her they are not satisfied with the King of France's offers. The Whigs
brought it in of a sudden; and the Court could not prevent it, and
therefore did not oppose it. The House of Lords is too strong in Whigs,
notwithstanding the new creations; for they are very diligent, and the
Tories as lazy: the side that is down has always most industry.