very ill of a fever: we were all
in a fright about him: I thank God, he is better. I dined to-day at Lord
Ashburnham's, with his lady, for he was not at home: she is a very
good girl, and always a great favourite of mine. Sterne tells me he has
desired a friend to receive your box in Chester, and carry it over. I
fear he will miscarry in his business, which was sent to the Treasury
before he was recommended; for I was positive only to second his
recommendations, and all his other friends failed him. However, on your
account I will do what I can for him to-morrow with the secretary of the
Treasury.

26. We had much company to-day at dinner at Lord Treasurer's. Prior
never fails: he is a much better courtier than I; and we expect every
day that he will be a Commissioner of the Customs, and that in a short
time a great many more will be turned out. They blame Lord Treasurer for
his slowness in turning people out; but I suppose he has his reasons.
They still keep my neighbour Atterbury in suspense about the deanery
of Christ Church,(10) which has been above six months vacant, and he
is heartily angry. I reckon you are now preparing for your Wexford
expedition; and poor Dingley is full of carking and caring, scolding.
How long will you stay? Shall I be in Dublin before you return? Don't
fall and hurt yourselves, nor overturn the coach. Love one another, and
be good girls; and drink Presto's health in water, Madam Stella; and in
good ale, Madam Dingley.

27. The Secretary appointed me to dine with him to-day, and we were to
do a world of business: he came at four, and brought Prior with him,
and had forgot the appointment, and no business was done. I left him at
eight, and went to change my gown at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's; and there was
Sir Andrew Fountaine at ombre with Lady Ashburnham and Lady Frederic
Schomberg, and Lady Mary Schomberg,(11) and Lady Betty Butler, and
others, talking; and it put me in mind of the Dean and Stoyte, and
Walls, and Stella at play, and Dingley and I looking on. I stayed with
them till ten, like a fool. Lady Ashburnham is something like Stella; so
I helped her, and wished her good cards. It is late, etc.

28. Well, but I must answer this letter of our MD's. Saturday
approaches, and I han't written down this side. O, faith, Presto has
been a sort of a lazy fellow: but Presto will remove to town this day
se'ennight; the Secretary has commanded me to do so; and I believe he
and I shall go for some days to Windsor, where he will have leisure to
mind some business we have together. To-day, our Society (it must not
be called a Club) dined at Mr. Secretary's: we were but eight; the rest
sent excuses, or were out of town. We sat till eight, and made some laws
and settlements; and then I went to take leave of Lady Ashburnham,
who goes out of town to-morrow, as a great many of my acquaintance are
already, and left the town very thin. I shall make but short journeys
this summer, and not be long out of London. The days are grown sensibly
short already, all our fruit blasted. Your Duke of Ormond is still
at Chester; and perhaps this letter will be with you as soon as he.
Sterne's business is quite blown up: they stand to it to send him back
to the Commissioners of the Revenue in Ireland for a reference, and
all my credit could not alter it, though I almost fell out with
the secretary of the Treasury,(12) who is my Lord Treasurer's
cousin-germain, and my very good friend. It seems every step he has
hitherto taken hath been wrong; at least they say so, and that is the
same thing. I am heartily sorry for it; and I really think they are in
the wrong, and use him hardly; but I can do no more.

29. Steele has had the assurance to write to me that I would engage my
Lord Treasurer to keep a friend of his in an employment: I believe I
told you how he and Addison served me for my good offices in Steele's
behalf; and I promised Lord Treasurer never to speak for either of them
again. Sir Andrew Fountaine and I dined to-day at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's.
Dilly Ashe has been in town this fortnight: I saw him twice; he was four
days at Lord Pembroke's in the country, punning with him; his face is
very well. I was this evening two or three hours at Lord Treasurer's,
who called me Dr. Thomas Swift twenty times; that's his way of teasing.
I left him at nine, and got home here by ten, like a gentleman; and
to-morrow morning I'll answer your little letter, sirrahs.

30. Morning. I am terribly sleepy always in a morning; I believe it is
my walk over-night that disposes me to sleep: faith, 'tis now striking
eight, and I am but just awake. Patrick comes early, and wakes me five
or six times; but I have excuses, though I am three parts asleep. I tell
him I sat up late, or slept ill in the night, and often it is a lie. I
have now got little MD's letter before me, N.16, no more, nor no less,
no mistake. Dingley says, "This letter won't be above six lines"; and I
was afraid it was true, though I saw it filled on both sides. The Bishop
of Clogher writ me word you were in the country, and that he heard you
were well: I am glad at heart MD rides, and rides, 