 of my paper, which is more than belongs to
you, young women.

     It goes to-morrow,
     To nobody's sorrow.

You are silly, not I; I'm a poet, if I had but, etc.--Who's silly now?
rogues and lasses, tinderboxes and buzzards. O Lord, I am in a high
vein of silliness; methought I was speaking to dearest little MD face
to face. There; so, lads, enough for to-night; to cards with the
blackguards. Goodnight, my delight, etc.

Dec. 1. Pish, sirrahs, put a date always at the bottom of your letter,
as well as the top, that I may know when you send it; your last is
of November 3, yet I had others at the same time, written a fortnight
after. Whenever you would have any money, send me word three weeks
before, and in that time you will certainly have an answer, with a bill
on Parvisol: pray do this; for my head is full, and it will ease my
memory. Why, I think I quoted to you some of ----'s letter, so you may
imagine how witty the rest was; for it was all of a bunch, as Goodman
Peesley(28) says. Pray let us have no more bussiness, but busyness:
the deuce take me if I know how to spell it; your wrong spelling, Madam
Stella, has put me out: it does not look right; let me see, bussiness,
busyness, business, bisyness, bisness, bysness; faith, I know not which
is right, I think the second; I believe I never writ the word in my life
before; yes, sure I must, though; business, busyness, bisyness.--I have
perplexed myself, and can't do it. Prithee ask Walls. Business, I fancy
that's right. Yes it is; I looked in my own pamphlet, and found it twice
in ten lines, to convince you that I never writ it before. Oh, now I see
it as plain as can be; so yours is only an _s_ too much. The Parliament
will certainly meet on Friday next: the Whigs will have a great majority
in the House of Lords, no care is taken to prevent it; there is too
much neglect; they are warned of it, and that signifies nothing: it
was feared there would be some peevish address from the Lords against a
peace. 'Tis said about the town that several of the Allies begin now to
be content that a peace should be treated. This is all the news I have.
The Queen is pretty well: and so now I bid poor dearest MD farewell till
to-night; then I will talk with them again.

The fifteen images that I saw were not worth forty pounds, so I
stretched a little when I said a thousand. The Grub Street account of
that tumult is published. The Devil is not like Lord Treasurer: they
were all in your odd antic masks, bought in common shops.(29) I fear
Prior will not be one of the plenipotentiaries.

I was looking over this letter, and find I make many mistakes of
leaving out words; so 'tis impossible to find my meaning, unless you be
conjurers. I will take more care for the future, and read over every day
just what I have written that day, which will take up no time to speak
of.




LETTER 36.

LONDON, Dec. 1, 1711.

My last was put in this evening. I intended to dine with Mr. Masham
to-day, and called at White's chocolate house to see if he was there.
Lord Wharton saw me at the door, and I saw him, but took no notice,
and was going away, but he came through the crowd, called after me, and
asked me how I did, etc. This was pretty; and I believe he wished every
word he spoke was a halter to hang me. Masham did not dine at home, so I
ate with a friend in the neighbourhood. The printer has not sent me the
second edition; I know not the reason, for it certainly came out to-day;
perhaps they are glutted with it already. I found a letter from Lord
Harley on my table, to tell me that his father desires I would make two
small alterations. I am going to be busy, etc.

2. Morning. See the blunder; I was making it the 37th day of the month,
from the number above. Well, but I am staying here for old Frowde, who
appointed to call this morning: I am ready dressed to go to church: I
suppose he dare not stir out but on Sundays.(1) The printer called early
this morning, told me the second edition went off yesterday in five
hours, and he must have a third ready to-morrow, for they might have
sold half another: his men are all at work with it, though it be
Sunday. This old fool will not come, and I shall miss church. Morrow,
sirrahs.--At night. I was at Court to-day: the Queen is well, and walked
through part of the rooms. I dined with the Secretary, and despatched
some business. He tells me the Dutch Envoy designs to complain of that
pamphlet. The noise it makes is extraordinary. It is fit it should
answer the pains I have been at about it. I suppose it will be printed
in Ireland. Some lay it to Prior, others to Mr. Secretary St. John, but
I am always the first they lay everything to. I'll go sleep, etc.

3. I have ordered Patrick not to let any odd fellow come up to me; and
a fellow would needs speak with me from Sir George Pretyman.(2) I had
never heard of him, and would not see the messenger: but at last it
proved that this Sir George has sold his estate, and is a beggar.
Smithers, the Farnham carrier, brought me this morning a letter from
your mother, with three papers enclosed of Lady Giffard's writing; one
owning s