 autumn this good while in St. James's Park;
the limes have been losing their leaves, and those remaining on the
trees are all parched: I hate this season, where everything grows worse
and worse. The only good thing of it is the fruit, and that I dare not
eat. Had you any fruit at Wexford? A few cherries, and durst not eat
them. I do not hear we have yet got a new Privy Seal. The Whigs whisper
that our new Ministry differ among themselves, and they begin to talk
out Mr. Secretary: they have some reasons for their whispers, although
I thought it was a greater secret. I do not much like the posture of
things; I always apprehended that any falling out would ruin them, and
so I have told them several times. The Whigs are mighty full of hopes at
present; and whatever is the matter, all kind of stocks fall. I have not
yet talked with the Secretary about Prior's journey. I should be apt to
think it may foretell a peace, and that is all we have to preserve us.
The Secretary is not come from Windsor, but I expect him to-morrow. Burn
all politics!

28. We begin to have fine weather, and I walked to-day to Chelsea, and
dined with the Dean of Carlisle, who is laid up with the gout. It is now
fixed that he is to be Dean of Christ Church in Oxford. I was advising
him to use his interest to prevent any misunderstanding between our
Ministers; but he is too wise to meddle, though he fears the thing and
the consequences as much as I. He will get into his own warm, quiet
deanery, and leave them to themselves; and he is in the right.--When
I came home to-night, I found a letter from Mr. Lewis, who is now at
Windsor; and in it, forsooth, another which looked like Presto's hand;
and what should it be but a 19th from MD? O, faith, I 'scaped narrowly,
for I sent my 28th but on Saturday; and what should I have done if I had
two letters to answer at once? I did not expect another from Wexford,
that is certain. Well, I must be contented; but you are dear saucy
girls, for all that, to write so soon again, faith; an't you?

29. I dined to-day with Lord Abercorn, and took my leave of them: they
set out to-morrow for Chester, and, I believe, will now fix in Ireland.
They have made a pretty good journey of it: his eldest son(4) is married
to a lady with ten thousand pounds; and his second son(5) has, t'other
day, got a prize in the lottery of four thousand pounds, beside two
small ones of two hundred pounds each: nay, the family was so fortunate,
that my lord bestowing one ticket, which is a hundred pounds, to one of
his servants, who had been his page, the young fellow got a prize, which
has made it another hundred. I went in the evening to Lord Treasurer,
who desires I will dine with him to-morrow, when he will show me the
answer he designs to return to the letter of thanks from your bishops in
Ireland. The Archbishop of Dublin desired me to get myself mentioned
in the answer which my lord would send; but I sent him word I would not
open my lips to my lord upon it. He says it would convince the bishops
of what I have affirmed, that the First-Fruits were granted before the
Duke of Ormond was declared Governor; and I writ to him that I would not
give a farthing to convince them. My Lord Treasurer began a health to my
Lord Privy Seal: Prior punned, and said it was so privy, he knew not who
it was; but I fancy they have fixed it all, and we shall know to-morrow.
But what care you who is Privy Seal, saucy sluttikins?

30. When I went out this morning, I was surprised with the news that
the Bishop of Bristol is made Lord Privy Seal. You know his name is
Robinson,(6) and that he was many years Envoy in Sweden. All the friends
of the present Ministry are extremely glad, and the clergy above the
rest. The Whigs will fret to death to see a civil employment given to a
clergyman. It was a very handsome thing in my Lord Treasurer, and will
bind the Church to him for ever. I dined with him to-day, but he had not
written his letter;(see above, 29th Aug.) but told me he would not offer
to send it without showing it to me: he thought that would not be just,
since I was so deeply concerned in the affair. We had much company: Lord
Rivers, Mar,(7) and Kinnoull,(8) Mr. Secretary, George Granville, and
Masham: the last has invited me to the christening of his son to-morrow
se'ennight; and on Saturday I go to Windsor with Mr. Secretary.

31. Dilly and I walked to-day to Kensington to Lady Mountjoy, who
invited us to dinner. He returned soon, to go to a play, it being the
last that will be acted for some time: he dresses himself like a
beau, and no doubt makes a fine figure. I went to visit some people at
Kensington: Ophy Butler's wife(9) there lies very ill of an ague, which
is a very common disease here, and little known in Ireland. I am apt to
think we shall soon have a peace, by the little words I hear thrown out
by the Ministry. I have just thought of a project to bite the town. I
have told you that it is now known that Mr. Prior has been lately in
France. I will make a printer of my own sit by me one day, and I will
dictate to him a formal relation of Prior's journey,(10)