 I have not forced
the words, by my explication, into any other sense than what they will
naturally bear. If this be granted, I am sure it must be also allow'd,
that the author (whoever he were) was a person of extraordinary
sagacity; and that astrology brought to such perfection as this, is by
no means an art to be despised, whatever Mr. Bickerstaff, or other
merry gentlemen are pleased to think. As to the tradition of these lines
having been writ in the original by Merlin, I confess I lay not much
weight upon it: But it is enough to justify their authority, that the
book from whence I have transcrib'd them, was printed 170 years ago, as
appears by the title-page. For the satisfaction of any gentleman, who
may be either doubtful of the truth, or curious to be inform'd; I shall
give order to have the very book sent to the printer of this paper, with
directions to let anybody see it that pleases, because I believe it is
pretty scarce.


*****




Dr. John Arbuthnot and Alexander Pope

Annus Mirabilis: or, The wonderful effects of the approaching
conjunction of the planets Jupiter, Mars, and Saturn.

By Mart. Scriblerus, Philomath.

In nova fert animus mutatas dicere formas corpora.....

I suppose every body is sufficiently appriz'd of, and duly prepar'd
for, the famous conjunction to be celebrated the 29th of this instant
December, 1722, foretold by all the sages of antiquity, under the name
of the Annus Mirabilis, or the metamorphostical conjunction: a word
which denotes the mutual transformation of sexes, (the effect of that
configuration of the celestial bodies) the human males being turn'd into
females, and the human females into males.

The Egyptians have represented this great transformation by several
significant hieroglyphicks, particularly one very remarkable. There are
carv'd upon an obelisk, a barber and a midwife; the barber delivers
his razor to the midwife, and she her swadling-cloaths to the barber.
Accordingly Thales Milesius (who like the rest of his countrymen,
borrow'd his learning from the Egyptians) after having computed the
time of this famous conjunction, "Then," says he, "shall men and women
mutually exchange the pangs of shaving and child-bearing."

Anaximander modestly describes this metamorphosis in mathematical terms:
"Then," says he, "shall the negative quantity of the women be turn'd
into positive, their - into +;" (i.e.) their minus into plus.

Plato not only speaks of this great change, but describes all the
preparations towards it. "Long before the bodily transformation, (says
he) nature shall begin the most difficult part of her work, by changing
the ideas and inclinations of the two sexes: Men shall turn effeminate,
and women manly; wives shall domineer, and husbands obey; ladies shall
ride a horseback, dress'd like cavaliers; princes and nobles appear in
night-rails and petticoats; men shall squeak upon theatres with female
voices, and women corrupt virgins; lords shall knot and cut paper; and
even the northern people.........:" A Greek phrase (which for modesty's
sake I forbear to translate) which denotes a vice too frequent amongst
us.

That the Ministry foresaw this great change, is plain from the
Callico-Act; whereby it is now become the occupation of women all
over England, to convert their useless female habits into beds,
window-curtains, chairs, and joint-stools; undressing themselves (as it
were) before their transformation.

The philosophy of this transformation will not seem surprizing to people
who search into the bottom of things. Madam Bourignon, a devout French
lady, has shewn us, how man was at first created male and female in
one individual, having the faculty of propagation within himself:
A circumstance necessary to the state of innocence, wherein a man's
happiness was not to depend upon the caprice of another. It was not till
after he had made a faux pas, that he had his female mate. Many such
transformations of individuals have been well attested; particularly
one by Montaigne, and another by the late Bishop of Salisbury. From
all which it appears, that this system of male and female has already
undergone and may hereafter suffer, several alterations. Every smatterer
in anatomy knows, that a woman is but an introverted man; a new fusion
and flatus will turn the hollow bottom of a bottle into a convexity; but
I forbear, (for the sake of my modest men-readers, who are in a few days
to be virgins.)

In some subjects, the smallest alterations will do: some men are
sufficiently spread about the hips, and contriv'd with female softness,
that they want only the negative quantity to make them buxom wenches;
and there are women who are, as it were, already the ebauche of a good
sturdy man. If nature cou'd be puzzl'd, it will be how to bestow the
redundant matter of the exuberant bubbies that now appear about town, or
how to roll out the short dapper fellows into well-siz'd women.

This great conjunction will begin to operate on Saturday the 29th
instant. Accordingly, about eight at night, as Senezino shall begin at
the Opera, si videte, he shall be observ'd to make an unusual mot