 even that will not return. Lord Treasurer would not
come here from London, because it would make a noise if he came before
his usual time, which is Saturday, and he goes away on Mondays. The
Whigs have lost a great support in the Earl of Godolphin.(4) It is a
good jest to hear the Ministers talk of him now with humanity and pity,
because he is dead, and can do them no more hurt. Lady Orkney,(5) the
late King's mistress (who lives at a fine place, five miles from hence,
called Cliffden(6)), and I, are grown mighty acquaintance. She is the
wisest woman I ever saw; and Lord Treasurer made great use of her advice
in the late change of affairs. I heard Lord Marlborough is growing ill
of his diabetes; which, if it be true, may soon carry him off; and then
the Ministry will be something more at ease. MD has been a long time
without writing to Pdfr, though they have not the same cause: it is
seven weeks since your last came to my hands, which was N.32, that you
may not be mistaken. I hope Ppt has not wanted her health. You were then
drinking waters. The doctor tells me I must go into a course of steel,
though I have not the spleen; for that they can never give me, though I
have as much provocation to it as any man alive. Bernage's(7) regiment
is broke; but he is upon half-pay. I have not seen him this long time;
but I suppose he is overrun with melancholy. My Lord Shrewsbury is
certainly designed to be Governor of Ireland; and I believe the Duchess
will please the people there mightily. The Irish Whig leaders promise
great things to themselves from his government; but care shall be taken,
if possible, to prevent them. Mrs. Fenton(8) has writ to me that she has
been forced to leave Lady Giffard, and come to town, for a rheumatism:
that lady does not love to be troubled with sick people. Mrs. Fenton
writes to me as one dying, and desires I would think of her son: I have
not answered her letter. She is retired(9) to Mrs. Povey's. Is my aunt
alive yet? and do you ever see her? I suppose she has forgot the loss of
her son. Is Raymond's new house quite finished? and does he squander as
he used to do? Has he yet spent all his wife's fortune? I hear there are
five or six people putting strongly in for my livings; God help them!
But if ever the Court should give me anything, I would recommend Raymond
to the Duke of Ormond; not for any particular friendship to him, but
because it would be proper for the minister of Trim to have Laracor. You
may keep the gold-studded snuff-box now; for my brother Hill, Governor
of Dunkirk, has sent me the finest that ever you saw.(10) It is allowed
at Court that none in England comes near it, though it did not cost
above twenty pounds. And the Duchess of Hamilton has made me pockets for
(it) like a woman's, with a belt and buckle (for, you know, I wear
no waistcoat in summer), and there are several divisions, and one on
purpose for my box, oh ho!--We have had most delightful weather this
whole week; but illness and vomiting have hindered me from sharing in a
great part of it. Lady Masham made the Queen send to Kensington for some
of her preserved ginger for me, which I take in the morning, and hope
it will do me good. Mrs. Brent(11) sent me a letter by a young fellow,
a printer, desiring I would recommend him here, which you may tell her
I have done: but I cannot promise what will come of it, for it is
necessary they should be made free here(12) before they can be employed.
I remember I put the boy prentice to Brent. I hope Parvisol has set my
tithes well this year: he has writ nothing to me about it; pray talk to
him of it when you see him, and let him give me an account how things
are. I suppose the corn is now off the ground. I hope he has sold that
great ugly horse. Why don't you sell to him? He keeps me at charges
for horses that I never ride: yours is lame, and will never be good for
anything. The Queen will stay here about a month longer, I suppose; but
Lady Masham will go in ten days to lie in at Kensington. Poor creature,
she fell down in the court here t'other day. She would needs walk across
it upon some displeasure with her chairmen, and was likely to be spoiled
so near her time; but we hope all is over for a black eye and a sore
side: though I shall not be at ease till she is brought to bed. I find I
can fill up a letter, some way or other, without a journal. If I had
not a spirit naturally cheerful, I should be very much discontented at
a thousand things. Pray God preserve MD's health, and Pdfr's, and that
I may live far from the envy and discontent that attends those who are
thought to have more favour at Courts than they really possess. Love
Pdfr, who loves MD above all things. Farewell, deelest, ten thousand
times deelest, MD MD MD, FW FW, ME ME ME ME. Lele, Lele, Lele, Lele.




LETTER 53.(1)

LONDON, Oct. 9, 1712.

I have left Windsor these ten days, and am deep in pills with
asafoetida, and a steel bitter drink; and I find my head much better
than it was. I was very much discouraged; for I used to be ill for three
or four days together, ready to totter as I walked. I take eight pills a
day