he frost
is gone. It thawed on Sunday, and so continues, yet ice is still on the
Canal (I did not mean that of Laracor, but St. James's Park) and boys
sliding on it. Mr. Ford pressed me to dine with him in his chamber.--Did
not I tell you Patrick has got a bird, a linnet, to carry over to
Dingley? It was very tame at first, and 'tis now the wildest I ever saw.
He keeps it in a closet, where it makes a terrible litter; but I say
nothing: I am as tame as a clout. When must we answer our MD's letter?
One of these odd-come-shortlies. This is a week old, you see, and no
farther yet. Mr. Harley desired I would dine with him again to-day; but
I refused him, for I fell out with him yesterday,(9) and will not see
him again till he makes me amends: and so I go to bed.

7. I was this morning early with Mr. Lewis of the Secretary's office,
and saw a letter Mr. Harley had sent to him, desiring to be reconciled;
but I was deaf to all entreaties, and have desired Lewis to go to him,
and let him know I expect further satisfaction. If we let these great
Ministers pretend too much, there will be no governing them. He promises
to make me easy, if I will but come and see him; but I won't, and he
shall do it by message, or I will cast him off. I'll tell you the cause
of our quarrel when I see you, and refer it to yourselves. In that he
did something, which he intended for a favour; and I have taken it quite
otherwise, disliking both the thing and the manner, and it has heartily
vexed me, and all I have said is truth, though it looks like jest; and I
absolutely refused to submit to his intended favour, and expect further
satisfaction. Mr. Ford and I dined with Mr. Lewis. We have a monstrous
deal of snow, and it has cost me two shillings to-day in chair and
coach, and walked till I was dirty besides. I know not what it is now
to read or write after I am in bed. The last thing I do up is to write
something to our MD, and then get into bed, and put out my candle,
and so go sleep as fast as ever I can. But in the mornings I do write
sometimes in bed, as you know.

8. Morning. I HAVE DESIRED APRONIA TO BE ALWAYS CAREFUL, ESPECIALLY
ABOUT THE LEGS. Pray, do you see any such great wit in that sentence?
I must freely own that I do not. But party carries everything nowadays,
and what a splutter have I heard about the wit of that saying, repeated
with admiration above a hundred times in half an hour! Pray read it over
again this moment, and consider it. I think the word is ADVISED, and not
DESIRED. I should not have remembered it if I had not heard it so often.
Why--ay--You must know I dreamed it just now, and waked with it in my
mouth. Are you bit, or are you not, sirrahs? I met Mr. Harley in the
Court of Requests, and he asked me how long I had learnt the trick of
writing to myself? He had seen your letter through the glass case at the
Coffee-house, and would swear it was my hand; and Mr. Ford, who took and
sent it me, was of the same mind. I remember others have formerly said
so too. I think I was little MD's writing-master.(10)--But come, what
is here to do, writing to young women in a morning? I have other fish
to fry; so good-morrow, my ladies all, good-morrow. Perhaps I'll answer
your letter to-night, perhaps I won't; that's as saucy little Presto
takes the humour.--At night. I walked in the Park to-day in spite of the
weather, as I do always when it does not actually rain. Do you know what
it has gone and done? We had a thaw for three days, then a monstrous
dirt and snow, and now it freezes, like a pot-lid, upon our snow. I
dined with Lady Betty Germaine, the first time since I came for England;
and there did I sit, like a booby, till eight, looking over her and
another lady at piquet, when I had other business enough to do. It was
the coldest day I felt this year.

9. Morning. After I had been abed an hour last night, I was forced to
rise and call to the landlady and maid to have the fire removed in a
chimney below stairs, which made my bed-chamber smoke, though I had no
fire in it. I have been twice served so. I never lay so miserable an
hour in my life. Is it not plaguy vexatious?--It has snowed all night,
and rains this morning.--Come, where's MD's letter? Come, Mrs. Letter,
make your appearance. Here am I, says she, answer me to my face.--O,
faith, I am sorry you had my twelfth so soon; I doubt you will stay
longer for the rest. I'm so 'fraid you have got my fourteenth while I
am writing this; and I would always have one letter from Presto reading,
one travelling, and one writing. As for the box, I now believe it lost.
It is directed for Mr. Curry, at his house in Capel Street, etc. I had
a letter yesterday from Dr. Raymond in Chester, who says he sent his
man everywhere, and cannot find it; and God knows whether Mr. Smyth will
have better success. Sterne spoke to him, and I writ to him with the
bottle of palsy-water; that bottle, I hope, will not miscarry: I long
to hear you have it. O, faith, you have too good an opinion of Presto's
care. I am negligent enough of everything but MD, and I should not have
trusted Sterne.--But it shall not go s