 upon. Nite MD.

27. Society day. You know that, I suppose. Dr. Arthburnett(7) was
President. His dinner was dressed in the Queen's kitchen, and was mighty
fine. We ate it at Ozinda's Chocolate-house,(8) just by St. James's.
We were never merrier, nor better company, and did not part till after
eleven. I did not summon Lord Lansdowne: he and I are fallen out. There
was something in an Examiner a fortnight ago that he thought reflected
on the abuses in his office (he is Secretary at War), and he writ to the
Secretary that he heard I had inserted that paragraph. This I resented
highly, that he should complain of me before he spoke to me. I sent him
a peppering letter, and would not summon him by a note, as I did the
rest; nor ever will have anything to say to him, till he begs my pardon.
I met Lord Treasurer to-day at Lady Masham's. He would fain have carried
me home to dinner, but I begged his pardon. What! upon a Society day!
No, no. 'Tis rate, sollahs. I an't dlunk. Nite MD.

28. I was with my friend Lewis to-day, getting materials for a little
mischief; and I dined with Lord Treasurer, and three or four fellows
I never saw before. I left them at seven, and came home, and have been
writing to the Archbishop of Dublin, and cousin Deane,(9) in answer to
one of his of four months old, that I spied by chance, routing among
my papers. I have a pain these two days exactly upon the top of my left
shoulder. I fear it is something rheumatic; it winches(10) now and then.
Shall I put flannel to it? Domville is going to Ireland; he came here
this morning to take leave of me, but I shall dine with him to-morrow.
Does the Bishop of Clogher talk of coming for England this summer? I
think Lord Molesworth told me so about two months ago. The weather
is bad again; rainy and very cold this evening. Do you know what the
longitude is? A projector(11) has been applying himself to me, to
recommend him to the Ministry, because he pretends to have found out the
longitude. I believe he has no more found it out than he has found out
mine...(12) However, I will gravely hear what he says, and discover him
a knave or fool. Nite MD.

29. I am plagued with these pains in my shoulder; I believe it is
rheumatic; I will do something for it to-night. Mr. Lewis and I dined
with Mr. Domville, to take our leave of him. I drank three or four
glasses of champagne by perfect teasing, though it is bad for my pain;
but if it continue, I will not drink any wine without water till I am
well. The weather is abominably cold and wet. I am got into bed, and
have put some old flannel, for want of new, to my shoulder, and rubbed
it with Hungary water.(13) It is plaguy hard. I never would drink any
wine, if it were not for my head, and drinking has given me this pain. I
will try abstemiousness for a while. How does MD do now; how does DD and
Ppt? You must know I hate pain, as the old woman said. But I'll try to
go seep. My flesh sucks up Hungary water rarely. My man is an awkward
rascal, and makes me peevish. Do you know that t'other day he was forced
to beg my pardon, that he could not shave my head, his hand shook so? He
is drunk every day, and I design to turn him off soon as ever I get to
Ireland. I'll write no more now, but go to sleep, and see whether sleep
and flannel will cure my shoulder. Nite deelest MD.

30. I was not able to go to church or Court to-day for my shoulder.
The pain has left my shoulder, and crept to my neck and collar-bone. It
makes me think of poo Ppt's bladebone. Urge, urge, urge; dogs gnawing. I
went in a chair at two, and dined with Mrs. Van, where I could be easy,
and came back at seven. My Hungary water is gone; and to-night I use
spirits of wine, which my landlady tells me is very good. It has rained
terribly all day long, and is extremely cold. I am very uneasy, and such
cruel twinges every moment! Nite deelest MD.

31. April 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. All these days I have been extremely
ill, though I twice crawled out a week ago; but am now recovering,
though very weak. The violence of my pain abated the night before last:
I will just tell you how I was, and then send away this letter, which
ought to have gone Saturday last. The pain increased with mighty
violence in my left shoulder and collar-bone, and that side my neck. On
Thursday morning appeared great red spots in all those places where my
pain was, and the violence of the pain was confined to my neck behind, a
little on the left side; which was so violent that I had not a minute's
ease, nor hardly a minute's sleep in three days and nights. The spots
increased every day, and bred little pimples, which are now grown white,
and full of corruption, though small. The red still continues too, and
most prodigious hot and inflamed. The disease is the shingles. I eat
nothing but water-gruel; am very weak; but out of all violent pain. The
doctors say it would have ended in some violent disease if it had not
come out thus. I shall now recover fast. I have been in no danger
of life, but miserable torture. I must not write too much. So adieu,
deelest MD MD MD FW FW, ME ME ME, Lele. I can say lele ye