s is his day of choice
company, where they sometimes admit me, but pretend to grumble. And
to-day they met on some extraordinary business; the Keeper, Steward,
both Secretaries, Lord Rivers, and Lord Anglesea: I left them at seven,
and came away, and have been writing to the Bishop of Clogher. I forgot
to know where to direct to him since Sir George St. George's death,(5)
but I have directed to the same house: you must tell me better, for
the letter is sent by the bellman. Don't write to me again till this is
gone, I charge you, for I won't answer two letters together. The Duke of
Somerset is out, and was with his yellow liveries at Parliament to-day.
You know he had the same with the Queen, when he was Master of the
Horse: we hope the Duchess will follow, or that he will take her away
in spite. Lord Treasurer, I hope, has now saved his head. Has the Dean
received my letter? ask him at cards to-night.

20. There was a world of people to-day at Court to see Prince Eugene,
but all bit, for he did not come. I saw the Duchess of Somerset talking
with the Duke of Buckingham; she looked a little down, but was extremely
courteous. The Queen has the gout, but is not in much pain. Must I fill
this line too?(6) well then, so let it be. The Duke of Beaufort(7) has
a mighty mind to come into our Society; shall we let him? I spoke to the
Duke of Ormond about it, and he doubts a little whether to let him in or
no. They say the Duke of Somerset is advised by his friends to let his
wife stay with the Queen; I am sorry for it. I dined with the Secretary
to-day, with mixed company; I don't love it. Our Society does not
meet till Friday, because Thursday will be a busy day in the House of
Commons, for then the Duke of Marlborough's bribery is to be examined
into about the pension paid him by those that furnished bread to the
army.

21. I have been five times with the Duke of Ormond about a perfect
trifle, and he forgets it: I used him like a dog this morning for it. I
was asked to-day by several in the Court of Requests whether it was
true that the author of the Examiner was taken up in an action of twenty
thousand pounds by the Duke of Marlborough?(8) I dined in the City,
where my printer showed me a pamphlet, called Advice to the October
Club, which he said was sent him by an unknown hand: I commended it
mightily; he never suspected me; 'tis a twopenny pamphlet. I came home
and got timely to bed; but about eleven one of the Secretary's servants
came to me to let me know that Lord Treasurer would immediately speak
to me at Lord Masham's upon earnest business, and that, if I was abed, I
should rise and come. I did so: Lord Treasurer was above with the Queen;
and when he came down he laughed, and said it was not he that sent for
me: the business was of no great importance, only to give me a paper,
which might have been done to-morrow. I stayed with them till past one,
and then got to bed again. Pize(9) take their frolics. I thought to have
answered your letter.

22. Dr. Gastrell was to see me this morning: he is an eminent divine,
one of the canons of Christ Church, and one I love very well: he said
he was glad to find I was not with James Broad. I asked what he meant.
"Why," says he, "have you not seen the Grub Street paper, that says Dr.
Swift was taken up as author of the Examiner, on an action of twenty
thousand pounds, and was now at James Broad's?" who, I suppose, is some
bailiff. I knew of this; but at the Court of Requests twenty people
told me they heard I had been taken up. Lord Lansdowne observed to the
Secretary and me that the Whigs spread three lies yesterday; that about
me; and another, that Maccartney, who was turned out last summer,(10)
is again restored to his places in the army; and the third, that Jack
Hill's commission for Lieutenant of the Tower is stopped, and that
Cadogan is to continue. Lansdowne thinks they have some design by these
reports; I cannot guess it. Did I tell you that Sacheverell has desired
mightily to come and see me? but I have put it off: he has heard that I
have spoken to the Secretary in behalf of a brother whom he maintains,
and who desires an employment.(11) T'other day at the Court of Requests
Dr. Yalden(12) saluted me by name: Sacheverell, who was just by, came
up to me, and made me many acknowledgment and compliments. Last night
I desired Lord Treasurer to do something for that brother of
Sacheverell's: he said he never knew he had a brother, but thanked me
for telling him, and immediately put his name in his table-book.(13)
I will let Sacheverell know this, that he may take his measures
accordingly, but he shall be none of my acquaintance. I dined to-day
privately with the Secretary, left him at six, paid a visit or two, and
came home.

23. I dined again to-day with the Secretary, but could not despatch some
business I had with him, he has so much besides upon his hands at this
juncture, and preparing against the great business to-morrow, which we
are top full of. The Minister's design is that the Duke of Marlborough
shall be censured as gently as possible, provided his friends will not
make hea