nswer, dear little young women; and I have no
more to say to you to-night, because of the Archbishop, for I am going
to write a long letter to him, but not so politely as formerly: I won't
trust him.

8. Well, then, come, let us see this letter; if I must answer it, I
must. What's here now? yes, faith, I lamented my birthday(9) two days
after, and that's all: and you rhyme, Madam Stella; were those verses
made upon my birthday? faith, when I read them, I had them running in my
head all the day, and said them over a thousand times; they drank your
health in all their glasses, and wished, etc. I could not get them
out of my head. What? no, I believe it was not; what do I say upon the
eighth of December? Compare, and see whether I say so. I am glad of
Mrs. Stoyte's recovery, heartily glad; your Dolly Manley's and Bishop of
Cloyne's(10) child I have no concern about: I am sorry in a civil way,
that's all. Yes, yes, Sir George St. George dead.(11)--Go, cry, Madam
Dingley; I have written to the Dean. Raymond will be rich, for he has
the building itch. I wish all he has got may put him out of debt. Poh, I
have fires like lightning; they cost me twelvepence a week, beside small
coal. I have got four new caps, madam, very fine and convenient, with
striped cambric, instead of muslin; so Patrick need not mend them, but
take the old ones. Stella snatched Dingley's word out of her pen; Presto
a cold? Why, all the world here is dead with them: I never had anything
like it in my life; 'tis not gone in five weeks. I hope Leigh is with
you before this, and has brought your box. How do you like the ivory
rasp? Stella is angry; but I'll have a finer thing for her. Is not
the apron as good? I'm sure I shall never be paid it; so all's well
again.--What? the quarrel with Sir John Walter?(12) Why, we had not one
word of quarrel; only he railed at me when I was gone: and Lord Keeper
and Treasurer teased me for a week. It was nuts to them; a serious
thing with a vengeance.--The Whigs may sell their estates then, or
hang themselves, as they are disposed; for a peace there will be.
Lord Treasurer told me that Connolly(13) was going to Hanover. Your
Provost(14) is a coxcomb. Stella is a good girl for not being angry
when I tell her of spelling; I see none wrong in this. God Almighty be
praised that your disorder lessens; it increases my hopes mightily that
they will go off. And have you been plagued with the fear of the plague?
never mind those reports; I have heard them five hundred times. Replevi?
Replevin, simpleton, 'tis Dingley I mean; but it is a hard word, and
so I'll excuse it. I stated Dingley's accounts in my last. I forgot
Catherine's sevenpenny dinner. I hope it was the beef-steaks; I'll call
and eat them in spring; but Goody Stoyte must give me coffee, or green
tea, for I drink no bohea. Well, ay, the pamphlet; but there are some
additions to the fourth edition; the fifth edition was of four thousand,
in a smaller print, sold for sixpence. Yes, I had the twenty-pound bill
from Parvisol: and what then? Pray now eat the Laracor apples; I beg you
not to keep them, but tell me what they are. You have had Tooke's bill
in my last. And so there now, your whole letter is answered. I tell you
what I do; I lay your letter before me, and take it in order, and answer
what is necessary; and so and so. Well, when I expected we were all
undone, I designed to retire for six months, and then steal over
to Laracor; and I had in my mouth a thousand times two lines of
Shakespeare, where Cardinal Wolsey says,

     "A weak old man, battered with storms of state,
      Is come to lay his weary bones among you."(15)

I beg your pardon; I have cheated you all this margin, I did not
perceive it; and I went on wider and wider like Stella; awkward sluts;
SHE WRITES SO SO, THERE:(16) that's as like as two eggs a penny.--"A
weak old man," now I am saying it, and shall till to-morrow.--The
Duke of Marlborough says there is nothing he now desires so much as to
contrive some way how to soften Dr. Swift. He is mistaken; for those
things that have been hardest against him were not written by me. Mr.
Secretary told me this from a friend of the Duke's; and I'm sure now he
is down, I shall not trample on him; although I love him not, I dislike
his being out.--Bernage was to see me this morning, and gave some very
indifferent excuses for not calling here so long. I care not twopence.
Prince Eugene did not dine with the Duke of Marlborough on Sunday, but
was last night at Lady Betty Germaine's assemblee, and a vast number of
ladies to see him. Mr. Lewis and I dined with a private friend. I was
this morning to see the Duke of Ormond, who appointed me to meet him
at the Cockpit at one, but never came. I sat too some time with the
Duchess. We don't like things very well yet. I am come home early, and
going to be busy. I'll go write.

9. I could not go sleep last night till past two, and was waked before
three by a noise of people endeavouring to break open my window. For a
while I would not stir, thinking it might be my imagination; but hearing
the noise continued, I rose and went