excuses, because I was engaged, which I was sorry for. Mrs. Forester
taxed me yesterday about the History of the Maids of Honour;(17) but I
told her fairly it was no jest of mine; for I found they did not relish
it altogether well; and I have enough already of a quarrel with that
brute Sir John Walter, who has been railing at me in all companies ever
since I dined with him; that I abused the Queen's meat and drink, and
said nothing at the table was good, and all a d----d lie; for after
dinner, commending the wine, I said I thought it was something small.
You would wonder how all my friends laugh at this quarrel. It will be
such a jest for the Keeper, Treasurer, and Secretary.--I dined with
honest Colonel Godfrey, took a good walk of an hour on the terrace, and
then came up to study; but it grows bloody cold, and I have no waistcoat
here.

6. I never dined with the chaplains till to-day; but my friend Gastrell
and the Dean of Rochester(18) had often invited me, and I happened to be
disengaged: it is the worst provided table at Court. We ate on pewter:
every chaplain, when he is made a dean, gives a piece of plate, and so
they have got a little, some of it very old. One who was made Dean of
Peterborough (a small deanery) said he would give no plate; he was
only Dean of Pewterborough. The news of Mr. Hill's miscarriage in his
expedition(19) came to-day, and I went to visit Mrs. Masham and Mrs.
Hill, his two sisters, to condole with them. I advised them by all means
to go to the music-meeting to-night, to show they were not cast down,
etc., and they thought my advice was right, and went. I doubt Mr. Hill
and his admiral made wrong steps; however, we lay it all to a storm,
etc. I sat with the Secretary at supper; then we both went to Lord
Treasurer's supper, and sat till twelve. The Secretary is much mortified
about Hill, because this expedition was of his contriving, and he
counted much upon it; but Lord Treasurer was just as merry as usual,
and old laughing at Sir John Walter and me falling out. I said nothing
grieved me but that they would take example, and perhaps presume upon
it, and get out of my government; but that I thought I was not obliged
to govern bears, though I governed men. They promise to be as obedient
as ever, and so we laughed; and so I go to bed; for it is colder still,
and you have a fire now, and are at cards at home.

7. Lord Harley and I dined privately to-day with Mrs. Masham and Mrs.
Hill, and my brother Masham. I saw Lord Halifax at Court, and we joined
and talked; and the Duchess of Shrewsbury came up and reproached me for
not dining with her. I said that was not so soon done, for I expected
more advances from ladies, especially duchesses: she promised to comply
with any demands I pleased; and I agreed to dine with her to-morrow,
if I did not go to London too soon, as I believe I shall before dinner.
Lady Oglethorpe brought me and the Duchess of Hamilton(20) together
to-day in the drawing-room, and I have given her some encouragement, but
not much. Everybody has been teasing Walter. He told Lord Treasurer that
he took his company from him that were to dine with him: my lord said,
"I will send you Dr. Swift:" Lord Keeper bid him take care what he
did; "for," said he, "Dr. Swift is not only all our favourite, but our
governor." The old company supped with Lord Treasurer, and got away by
twelve.

London, 8. I believe I shall go no more to Windsor, for we expect the
Queen will come in ten days to Hampton Court. It was frost last night,
and cruel cold to-day. I could not dine with the Duchess, for I left
Windsor half an hour after one with Lord Treasurer, and we called at
Kensington, where Mrs. Masham was got to see her children for two days.
I dined, or rather supped, with Lord Treasurer, and stayed till after
ten. Tisdall(21) and his family are gone from hence, upon some wrangle
with the family. Yesterday I had two letters brought me to Mr. Masham's;
one from Ford, and t'other from our little MD, N.21. I would not tell
you till to-day, because I would not. I won't answer it till the next,
because I have slipped two days by being at Windsor, which I must
recover here. Well, sirrahs, I must go to sleep. The roads were as dry
as at midsummer to-day. This letter shall go to-morrow.

9. Morning. It rains hard this morning. I suppose our fair weather is
now at an end. I think I'll put on my waistcoat to-day: shall I? Well,
I will then, to please MD. I think of dining at home to-day upon a chop
and a pot. The town continues yet very thin. Lord Strafford is gone to
Holland, to tell them what we have done here toward a peace. We shall
soon hear what the Dutch say, and how they take it. My humble service
to Mrs. Walls, Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine.--Morrow, dearest sirrahs, and
farewell; and God Almighty bless MD, poor little dear MD, for so I mean,
and Presto too. I'll write to you again to-night, that is, I'll begin my
next letter. Farewell, etc.

This little bit belongs to MD; we must always write on the margin:(22)
you are saucy rogues.




LETTER 32.

LONDON, Oct. 9, 1711.

I was forced to lie down at twelve to