ay like Gumdragon; and
yet I was dictating some trifles this morning to a printer. I dined with
a friend hard by, and the weather was so discouraging I could not walk.
I came home early, and have read two hundred pages of Arran. Alexander
the Great is just dead: I do not think he was poisoned; betwixt you and
me, all those are but idle stories: it is certain that neither Ptolemy
nor Aristobulus thought so, and they were both with him when he(12)
died. It is a pity we have not their histories. The Bill for limiting
Members of Parliament to have but so many places passed the House of
Commons, and will pass the House of Lords, in spite of the Ministry,
which you know is a great lessening of the Queen's power. Four of the
new lords voted against the Court in this point. It is certainly a good
Bill in the reign of an ill prince, but I think things are not settled
enough for it at present. And the Court may want a majority upon a
pinch. Nite deelest logues. Rove Pdfr.

March 1. I went into the City to inquire after poor Stratford,(13) who
has put himself a prisoner into the Queen's Bench, for which his friends
blame him much, because his creditors designed to be very easy with him.
He grasped at too many things together, and that was his ruin. There
is one circumstance relative to Lieutenant-General Meredith(14) that
is very melancholy: Meredith was turned out of all his employments
last year, and had about 10,000 pounds left to live on. Stratford, upon
friendship, desired he might have the management of it for Meredith, to
put it into the stocks and funds for the best advantage, and now he
has lost it all. You have heard me often talk of Stratford; we were
class-fellows at school and university. I dined with some merchants,
his friends, to-day, and they said they expected his breaking this good
while. I gave him notice of a treaty of peace, while it was a secret, of
which he might have made good use, but that helped to ruin him; for he
gave money, reckoning there would be actually a peace by this time, and
consequently stocks rise high. Ford narrowly 'scaped losing 500 pounds
by him, and so did I too. Nite, my two deelest rives MD.

2. Morning. I was wakened at three this morning, my man and the people
of the house telling me of a great fire in the Haymarket. I slept again,
and two hours after my man came in again, and told me it was my poor
brother Sir William Wyndham's(15) house burnt, and that two maids,
leaping out of an upper room to avoid the fire, both fell on their
heads, one of them upon the iron spikes before the door, and both lay
dead in the streets. It is supposed to have been some carelessness of
one or both those maids. The Duke of Ormond was there helping to put
out the fire. Brother Wyndham gave 6,000 pounds but a few months ago
for that house, as he told me, and it was very richly furnished. I shall
know more particulars at night. He married Lady Catherine Seymour,
the Duke of Somerset's daughter; you know her, I believe.--At night.
Wyndham's young child escaped very narrowly; Lady Catherine escaped
barefoot; they all went to Northumberland House. Mr. Brydges's(16)
house, at next door, is damaged much, and was like to be burnt. Wyndham
has lost above 10,000 pounds by this accident; his lady above a thousand
pounds worth of clothes. It was a terrible accident. He was not at Court
to-day. I dined with Lord Masham. The Queen was not at church. Nite, MD.

3. Pray tell Walls that I spoke to the Duke of Ormond and Mr. Southwell
about his friend's affair, who, I find, needed not me for a solicitor,
for they both told me the thing would be done. I likewise mentioned
his own affair to Mr. Southwell, and I hope that will be done too, for
Southwell seems to think it reasonable, and I will mind him of it again.
Tell him this nakedly. You need not know the particulars. They are
secrets: one of them is about Mrs. South having a pension; the other
about his salary from the Government for the tithes of the park that lie
in his parish, to be put upon the establishment, but oo must not know
zees sings, zey are secrets; and we must keep them flom nauty dallars.
I dined in the City with my printer, with whom I had some small affair;
but I have no large work on my hands now. I was with Lord Treasurer this
morning, and hat(17) care oo for zat? Oo dined with the Dean to-day.
Monday is parson's holiday, and oo lost oo money at cards and dice; ze
Givars(18) device. So I'll go to bed. Nite, my two deelest logues.

4. I sat to-day with poor Mrs. Wesley, who made me dine with her. She
is much better than she was. I heartily pray for her health, out of
the entire love I bear to her worthy husband. This day has passed very
insignificantly. But it is a great comfort to me now that I can come
home and read, and have nothing upon my hands to write. I was at Lord
Masham's to-night, and stayed there till one. Lord Treasurer was there;
but I thought, I thought he looked melancholy, just as he did at the
beginning of the session, and he was not so merry as usual. In short,
the majority in the House of Lords is a very weak one: and he has much
ado t