engaged; and I did it in revenge of his having such bad company
when I dined with him before; so we laughed, etc. And I ventured to go
to church to-day, which I have not done this month before. Can you send
me such a good account of Stella's health, pray now? Yes, I hope, and
better too. We dined (says you) at the Dean's, and played at cards
till twelve, and there came in Mr. French, and Dr. Travors, and Dr.
Whittingham, and Mr. (I forget his name, that I always tell Mrs. Walls
of) the banker's son, a pox on him. And we were so merry; I vow they are
pure good company. But I lost a crown; for you must know I had always
hands tempting me to go out, but never took in anything, and often
two black aces without a manilio; was not that hard, Presto? Hold your
tongue, etc.

26. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary about some business, and
he tells me that Colonel Fielding is now going to make Bernage
his captain-lieutenant, that is, a captain by commission, and the
perquisites of the company; but not captain's pay, only the first step
to it. I suppose he will like it; and the recommendation to the Duke
of Argyle goes on. And so trouble me no more about your Bernage; the
jackanapes understands what fair solicitors he has got, I warrant you.
Sir Andrew Fountaine and I dined, by invitation, with Mrs. Vanhomrigh.
You say they are of no consequence: why, they keep as good female
company as I do male; I see all the drabs of quality at this end of
the town with them: I saw two Lady Bettys(2) there this afternoon; the
beauty of one, the good-breeding and nature of t'other, and the wit of
neither, would have made a fine woman. Rare walking in the Park now: why
don't you walk in the Green of St. Stephen? The walks there are finer
gravelled than the Mall. What beasts the Irish women are, never to walk!

27. Darteneuf and I, and little Harrison the new Tatler, and Jervas the
painter, dined to-day with James,(3) I know not his other name, but it
is one of Darteneuf's dining-places, who is a true epicure. James is
clerk of the kitchen to the Queen, and has a little snug house at St.
James's; and we had the Queen's wine, and such very fine victuals that
I could not eat it. Three weeks and three days since my last letter from
MD; rare doings! why, truly we were so busy with poor Mrs. Walls, that
indeed, Presto, we could not write, we were afraid the poor woman would
have died; and it pitied us to see the Archdeacon, how concerned he was.
The Dean never came to see her but once; but now she is up again, and we
go and sit with her in the evenings. The child died the next day after
it was born; and I believe, between friends, she is not very sorry for
it.--Indeed, Presto, you are plaguy silly tonight, and han't guessed one
word right; for she and the child are both well, and it is a fine girl,
likely to live; and the Dean was godfather, and Mrs. Catherine and I
were godmothers; I was going to say Stoyte, but I think I have heard
they don't put maids and married women together; though I know not why I
think so, nor I don't care; what care I? but I must prate, etc.

28. I walked to-day into the City for my health, and there dined; which
I always do when the weather is fair, and business permits, that I may
be under a necessity of taking a good walk, which is the best thing I
can do at present for my health. Some bookseller has raked up everything
I writ, and published it t'other day in one volume; but I know nothing
of it, 'twas without my knowledge or consent: it makes a four-shilling
book, and is called Miscellanies in Prose and Verse.(4) Tooke pretends
he knows nothing of it; but I doubt he is at the bottom. One must have
patience with these things; the best of it is, I shall be plagued
no more. However, I will bring a couple of them over with me for MD;
perhaps you may desire to see them. I hear they sell mightily.

March 1. Morning. I have been calling to Patrick to look in his almanac
for the day of the month; I did not know but it might be leap-year. The
almanac says 'tis the third after leap-year; and I always thought till
now, that every third year was leap-year. I am glad they come so seldom;
but I'm sure 'twas otherwise when I was a young man; I see times are
mightily changed since then.--Write to me, sirrahs; be sure do by the
time this side is done, and I'll keep t'other side for the answer: so
I'll go write to the Bishop of Clogher; good-morrow, sirrahs.--Night.
I dined to-day at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, being a rainy day; and Lady Betty
Butler, knowing it, sent to let me know she expected my company in the
evening, where the Vans (so we call them) were to be. The Duchess(5) and
they do not go over this summer with the Duke; so I go to bed.

2. This rainy weather undoes me in coaches and chairs. I was traipsing
to-day with your Mr. Sterne, to go along with them to Moore,(6) and
recommend his business to the Treasury. Sterne tells me his dependence
is wholly on me; but I have absolutely refused to recommend it to Mr.
Harley, because I have troubled him lately so much with other folks'
affairs; and besides, to tell the truth, Mr. Harley told me 