s
the name of a Whig, it will be hard, considering my Lord Anglesea and
Hyde(30) are very much otherwise, and you know they have the employment
of Deputy Treasurer. If the frolic should take you of going to the Bath,
I here send you a note on Parvisol; if not, you may tear it, and there's
an end. Farewell.

If you have an imagination that the Bath will do you good, I say again,
I would have you go; if not, or it be inconvenient, burn this note. Or,
if you would go, and not take so much money, take thirty pounds, and I
will return you twenty from hence. Do as you please, sirrahs. I suppose
it will not be too late for the first season; if it be, I would have you
resolve however to go the second season, if the doctors say it will do
you good, and you fancy so.




LETTER 20.

LONDON, April 5, 1711.

I put my nineteenth in the post-office just now myself, as I came out of
the City, where I dined. This rain ruins me in coach-hire; I walked
away sixpennyworth, and came within a shilling length, and then took a
coach,(1) and got a lift back for nothing; and am now busy.

6. Mr. Secretary desired I would see him this morning; said he had
several things to say to me, and said not one; and the Duke of Ormond
sent to desire I would meet him at Mr. Southwell's by ten this morning
too, which I did, thinking it was some particular matter. All the Irish
in town were there, to consult upon preventing a Bill for laying a duty
on Irish yarn; so we talked a while, and then all went to the lobby of
the House of Commons, to solicit our friends, and the Duke came among
the rest; and Lord Anglesea solicited admirably, and I did wonders. But,
after all, the matter was put off till Monday, and then we are to be
at it again. I dined with Lord Mountjoy, and looked over him at chess,
which put me in mind of Stella and Griffyth.(2) I came home, and that
dog Patrick was not within; so I fretted, and fretted, and what good did
that do me?

     And so get you gone to your deans,
     You couple of queans.

I cannot find rhyme to Walls and Stoyte.--Yes, yes,

     You expect Mrs. Walls,
     Be dressed when she calls,
     To carry you to Stoyte,
     Or else HONI SOIT.

Henley told me that the Tories were insup-port-able people, because they
are for bringing in French claret, and will not SUP-PORT. Mr. Harley
will hardly get abroad this week or ten days yet. I reckon, when I send
away this letter, he will be just got into the House of Commons. My last
letter went in twelve days, and so perhaps may this. No it won't, for
those letters that go under a fortnight are answers to one of yours,
otherwise you must take the days as they happen, some dry, some wet,
some barren, some fruitful, some merry, some insipid; some, etc.--I will
write you word exactly the first day I see young gooseberries, and pray
observe how much later you are. We have not had five fine days this five
weeks, but rain or wind. 'Tis a late spring they say here.--Go to bed,
you two dear saucy brats, and don't keep me up all night.

7. Ford has been at Epsom, to avoid Good Friday and Easter Sunday. He
forced me to-day to dine with him; and tells me there are letters from
Ireland, giving an account of a great indiscretion in the Archbishop
of Dublin, who applied a story out of Tacitus very reflectingly on Mr.
Harley, and that twenty people have written of it; I do not believe it
yet.(3) I called this evening to see Mr. Secretary, who has been very
ill with the gravel and pain in his back, by burgundy and champagne,
added to the sitting up all night at business; I found him drinking tea
while the rest were at champagne, and was very glad of it. I have chid
him so severely that I hardly knew whether he would take it well: then
I went and sat an hour with Mrs. St. John, who is growing a great
favourite of mine; she goes to the Bath on Wednesday, for she is much
out of health, and has begged me to take care of the Secretary.

8. I dined to-day with Mr. Secretary St. John; he gave me a letter
to read, which was from the publisher of the newspaper called the
Postboy;(4) in it there was a long copy of a letter from Dublin, giving
an account of what the Whigs said upon Mr. Harley's being stabbed, and
how much they abuse him and Mr. Secretary St. John; and at the end there
were half a dozen lines, telling the story of the Archbishop of Dublin,
and abusing him horribly; this was to be printed on Tuesday. I told the
Secretary I would not suffer that about the Archbishop to be printed,
and so I crossed it out; and afterwards, to prevent all danger, I made
him give me the letter, and, upon further thought, would let none of it
be published: and I sent for the printer, and told him so, and ordered
him, in the Secretary's name, to print nothing reflecting on anybody
in Ireland till he had showed it me. Thus I have prevented a terrible
scandal to the Archbishop, by a piece of perfect good fortune. I will
let him know it by next post; and pray, if you pick it out, let me know,
and whether he is thankful for it; but say nothing.

9. I was to-day at the House of Commons again about their yarn, at Lord
Anglesea'