r. Berkeley,(12) one
of your Fellows of Dublin College, to Lord Berkeley of Stratton. That
Mr. Berkeley is a very ingenious man, and great philosopher, and I have
mentioned him to all the Ministers, and given them some of his writings;
and I will favour him as much as I can. This I think I am bound to,
in honour and conscience, to use all my little credit toward helping
forward men of worth in the world. The Queen was at chapel to-day,
and looks well. I dined at Lord Orkney's with the Duke of Ormond,
Lord Arran, and Sir Thomas Hanmer. Mr. St. John, Secretary at Utrecht,
expects every moment to return there with the ratification of the peace.
Did I tell you in my last of Addison's play called Cato, and that I was
at the rehearsal of it? Nite MD.

13. This morning my friend, Mr. Lewis, came to me, and showed me an
order for a warrant for the three vacant deaneries; but none of them
to me. This was what I always foresaw, and received the notice of it
better, I believe, than he expected. I bid Mr. Lewis tell Lord Treasurer
that I took nothing ill of him but his not giving me timely notice, as
he promised to do, if he found the Queen would do nothing for me. At
noon, Lord Treasurer hearing I was in Mr. Lewis's office, came to me,
and said many things too long to repeat. I told him I had nothing to
do but go to Ireland immediately; for I could not, with any reputation,
stay longer here, unless I had something honourable immediately given to
me. We dined together at the Duke of Ormond's. He there told me he had
stopped the warrants for the deans, that what was done for me might be
at the same time, and he hoped to compass it to-night; but I believe
him not. I told the Duke of Ormond my intentions. He is content Sterne
should be a bishop, and I have St. Patrick's; but I believe nothing will
come of it, for stay I will not; and so I believe for all oo... (13) oo
may see me in Dublin before April ends. I am less out of humour than you
would imagine: and if it were not that impertinent people will condole
with me, as they used to give me joy, I would value it less. But I will
avoid company, and muster up my baggage, and send them next Monday
by the carrier to Chester, and come and see my willows, against the
expectation of all the world.--Hat care I? Nite deelest logues, MD.

14. I dined in the City to-day, and ordered a lodging to be got ready
for me against I came to pack up my things; for I will leave this end of
the town as soon as ever the warrants for the deaneries are out,
which are yet stopped. Lord Treasurer told Mr. Lewis that it should be
determined to-night: and so he will for(14) a hundred nights. So he said
yesterday, but I value it not. My daily journals shall be but short
till I get into the City, and then I will send away this, and follow it
myself; and design to walk it all the way to Chester, my man and I, by
ten miles a day. It will do my health a great deal of good. I shall do
it in fourteen days. Nite dee MD.

15. Lord Bolingbroke made me dine with him to-day; he(15) was as good
company as ever; and told me the Queen would determine something for me
to-night. The dispute is, Windsor or St. Patrick's. I told him I would
not stay for their disputes, and he thought I was in the right. Lord
Masham told me that Lady Masham is angry I have not been to see her
since this business, and desires I will come to-morrow. Nite deelest MD.

16. I was this noon at Lady Masham's, who was just come from Kensington,
where her eldest son is sick. She said much to me of what she had talked
to the Queen and Lord Treasurer. The poor lady fell a shedding tears
openly. She could not bear to think of my having St. Patrick's, etc. I
was never more moved than to see so much friendship. I would not stay
with her, but went and dined with Dr. Arbuthnot, with Mr. Berkeley,
one of your Fellows, whom I have recommended to the Doctor, and to Lord
Berkeley of Stratton. Mr. Lewis tells me that the Duke of Ormond has
been to-day with the Queen; and she was content that Dr. Sterne should
be Bishop of Dromore, and I Dean of St. Patrick's; but then out came
Lord Treasurer, and said he would not be satisfied but that I must be
Prebend(ary) of Windsor. Thus he perplexes things. I expect neither; but
I confess, as much as I love England, I am so angry at this treatment
that, if I had my choice, I would rather have St. Patrick's. Lady Masham
says she will speak to purpose to the Queen to-morrow. Nite,... dee MD.

17. I went to dine at Lady Masham's to-day, and she was taken ill of a
sore throat, and aguish. She spoke to the Queen last night, but had
not much time. The Queen says she will determine to-morrow with Lord
Treasurer. The warrants for the deaneries are still stopped, for fear I
should be gone. Do you think anything will be done? I don't care whether
it is or no. In the meantime, I prepare for my journey, and see no great
people, nor will see Lord Treasurer any more, if I go. Lord Treasurer
told Mr. Lewis it should be done to-night; so he said five nights ago.
Nite MD.

18. This morning Mr. Lewis sent me word that Lord Treasurer told him
the Queen w