try, but perhaps may put it off till the session is over: and I
think they had better give up now, if she will not deal openly; and
then they need not answer for the consequences of a peace, when it is in
other hands, and may yet be broken. They say my Lord Privy Seal sets out
for Holland this week: so the peace goes on.

18. It has rained hard from morning till night, and cost me three
shillings in coach-hire. We have had abundance of wet weather. I dined
in the City, and was with the printer, who has now a fifth edition of
the Conduct, etc.: it is in small, and sold for sixpence; they have
printed as many as three editions, because they are to be sent in
numbers into the country by great men, etc., who subscribe for hundreds.
It has been sent a fortnight ago to Ireland: I suppose you will print it
there. The Tory Lords and Commons in Parliament argue all from it; and
all agree that never anything of that kind was of so great consequence,
or made so many converts. By the time I have sent this letter, I expect
to hear from little MD: it will be a month, two days hence, since I had
your last, and I will allow ten days for accidents. I cannot get rid
of the leavings of a cold I got a month ago, or else it is a new one.
I have been writing letters all this evening till I am weary, and I am
sending out another little thing, which I hope to finish this week, and
design to send to the printer in an unknown hand. There was printed
a Grub Street speech of Lord Nottingham;(2) and he was such an owl to
complain of it in the House of Lords, who have taken up the printer for
it. I heard at Court that Walpole(3) (a great Whig member) said that I
and my whimsical Club writ it at one of our meetings, and that I should
pay for it. He will find he lies: and I shall let him know by a third
hand my thoughts of him. He is to be Secretary of State, if the Ministry
changes; but he has lately had a bribe proved against him in Parliament,
while he was Secretary at War. He is one of the Whigs' chief speakers.

19. Sad dismal weather. I went to the Secretary's office, and Lewis made
me dine with him. I intended to have dined with Lord Treasurer. I
have not seen the Secretary this week. Things do not mend at all. Lord
Dartmouth despairs, and is for giving up; Lewis is of the same mind; but
Lord Treasurer only says, "Poh, poh, all will be well." I am come
home early to finish something I am doing; but I find I want heart and
humour, and would read any idle book that came in my way. I have just
sent away a penny paper to make a little mischief. Patrick is gone to
the burial of an Irish footman, who was Dr. King's(4) servant; he died
of a consumption, a fit death for a poor starving wit's footman. The
Irish servants always club to bury a countryman.

20. I was with the Secretary this morning, and, for aught I can see,
we shall have a languishing death: I can know nothing, nor themselves
neither. I dined, you know, with our Society, and that odious Secretary
would make me President next week; so I must entertain them this day
se'nnight at the Thatched House Tavern,(5) where we dined to-day: it
will cost me five or six pounds; yet the Secretary says he will give me
wine. I found a letter when I came home from the Bishop of Clogher.

21. This is the first time I ever got a new cold before the old one was
going: it came yesterday, and appeared in all due forms, eyes and nose
running, etc., and is now very bad; and I cannot tell how I got it. Sir
Andrew Fountaine and I were invited to dine with Mrs. Van. I was this
morning with the Duke of Ormond; and neither he nor I can think of
anything to comfort us in present affairs. We must certainly fall, if
the Duchess of Somerset be not turned out; and nobody believes the Queen
will ever part with her. The Duke and I were settling when Mr. Secretary
and I should dine with him, and he fixes upon Tuesday; and when I came
away I remembered it was Christmas Day. I was to see Lady ----, who is
just up after lying-in; and the ugliest sight I have seen, pale, dead,
old and yellow, for want of her paint. She has turned my stomach. But
she will soon be painted, and a beauty again.

22. I find myself disordered with a pain all round the small of my back,
which I imputed to champagne I had drunk; but find it to have been only
my new cold. It was a fine frosty day, and I resolved to walk into the
City. I called at Lord Treasurer's at eleven, and stayed some time with
him.--He showed me a letter from a great Presbyterian parson(6) to
him, complaining how their friends had betrayed them by passing this
Conformity Bill; and he showed me the answer he had written, which his
friends would not let him send; but was a very good one. He is very
cheerful; but gives one no hopes, nor has any to give. I went into the
City, and there I dined.

23. Morning. As I was dressing to go to church, a friend that was to see
me advised me not to stir out; so I shall keep at home to-day, and only
eat some broth, if I can get it. It is a terrible cold frost, and snow
fell yesterday, which still remains: look there, you may see it from the
penthouses. 