 For want of a better;
     But plagued with a tetter,
     My fancy does fetter.

Ah! my poor willows and quicksets! Well, but you must read John Bull.
Do you understand it all? Did I tell you that young Parson Gery(11) is
going to be married, and asked my advice when it was too late to break
off? He tells me Elwick has purchased forty pounds a year in land
adjoining to his living. Ppt does not say one word of her own little
health. I am angry almost; but I won't, 'cause see im a dood dallar in
odle sings;(12) iss, and so im DD too. God bless MD, and FW, and ME, ay
and Pdfr too. Farewell, MD, MD, MD, FW, FW, FW. ME, ME Lele. I can say
lele it, ung oomens, iss I tan, well as oo.




LETTER 47.(1)

LONDON, May 31, 1712.

I cannot yet arrive to my journal letters, my pains continuing still,
though with less violence; but I don't love to write journals while I am
in pain; and above all, not journals to MD. But, however, I am so much
mended, that I intend my next shall be in the old way; and yet I shall,
perhaps, break my resolution when I feel pain. I believe I have lost
credit with you, in relation to my coming over; but I protest it is
impossible for one who has anything to do with this Ministry to be
certain when he fixes any time. There is a business which, till it take
some turn or other, I cannot leave this place in prudence or honour. And
I never wished so much as now that I had stayed in Ireland; but the
die is cast, and is now a spinning, and till it settles, I cannot tell
whether it be an ace or a sise.(2) I am confident by what you know
yourselves, that you will justify me in all this. The moment I am used
ill, I will leave them; but know not how to do it while things are in
suspense. The session will soon be over (I believe in a fortnight), and
the peace, we hope, will be made in a short time; and there will be
no further occasion for me; nor have I anything to trust to but Court
gratitude, so that I expect to see my willows(3) a month after the
Parliament is up: but I will take MD in my way, and not go to Laracor
like an unmannerly spraenekich ferrow.(4) Have you seen my Letter to
Lord Treasurer? There are two answers come out to it already;(5) though
it is no politics, but a harmless proposal about the improvement of
the English Tongue. I believe if I writ an essay upon a straw some
fool would answer it. About ten days hence I expect a letter from MD;
N.30.--You are now writing it, near the end, as I guess.--I have not
received DD's money; but I will give you a note for it on Parvisol, and
bed oo paadon(6) I have not done it before. I am just now thinking to go
lodge at Kensington for the air. Lady Masham has teased me to do it, but
business has hindered me; but now Lord Treasurer has removed thither.
Fifteen of our Society dined together under a canopy in an arbour
at Parson's Green(7) last Thursday: I never saw anything so fine and
romantic. We got a great victory last Wednesday in the House of Lords
by a majority, I think, of twenty-eight; and the Whigs had desired their
friends to bespeak places to see Lord Treasurer carried to the Tower.(8)
I met your Higgins(9) here yesterday: he roars at the insolence of
the Whigs in Ireland, talks much of his own sufferings and expenses in
asserting the cause of the Church; and I find he would fain plead merit
enough to desire that his fortune should be mended. I believe he designs
to make as much noise as he can in order to preferment. Pray let the
Provost, when he sees you, give you ten English shillings, and I will
give as much here to the man who delivered me Rymer's books:(10) he
knows the meaning. Tell him I will not trust him, but that you can order
it to be paid me here; and I will trust you till I see you. Have I told
you that the rogue Patrick has left me these two months, to my great
satisfaction? I have got another, who seems to be much better, if he
continues it. I am printing a threepenny pamphlet,(11) and shall print
another in a fortnight, and then I have done, unless some new occasion
starts. Is my curate Warburton married to Mrs. Melthrop in my parish? so
I hear. Or is it a lie? Has Raymond got to his new house? Do you see
Joe now and then? What luck have you at ombre? How stands it with the
Dean?...(12) My service to Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine, if she be come
from Wales. I have not yet seen Dilly Ashe's wife. I called once, but
she was not at home: I think she is under the doctor's hand....(13) I
believe the news of the Duke of Ormond producing letters in the council
of war, with orders not to fight, will surprise you in Ireland. Lord
Treasurer said in the House of Lords that in a few days the treaty of
peace should be laid before them; and our Court thought it wrong to
hazard a battle, and sacrifice many lives in such a juncture. If the
peace holds, all will do well, otherwise I know not how we shall weather
it. And it was reckoned as a wrong step in politics for Lord Treasurer
to open himself so much. The Secretary would not go so far to satisfy
the Whigs in the House of Commons; but there all went swimmingly. I'll
say no more to oo to-nite, sellohs, b