d did, at the
request of some people, desire that the Queen's answer to the Commons'
address might express a dislike of some principles, etc.; but was
answered dubiously.--And so now to your letter, fair ladies. I know
drinking is bad; I mean writing is bad in drinking the waters; and was
angry to see so much in Stella's hand. But why Dingley drinks them, I
cannot imagine; but truly she'll drink waters as well as Stella: why
not? I hope you now find the benefit of them since you are returned;
pray let me know particularly. I am glad you are forced upon exercise,
which, I believe, is as good as the waters for the heart of them. 'Tis
now past the middle of August; so by your reckoning you are in Dublin.
It would vex me to the dogs that letters should miscarry between Dublin
and Wexford, after 'scaping the salt seas. I will write no more to
that nasty town in haste again, I warrant you. I have been four Sundays
together at Windsor, of which a fortnight together; but I believe I
shall not go to-morrow, for I will not, unless the Secretary asks me. I
know all your news about the Mayor: it makes no noise here at all, but
the quarrel of your Parliament does; it is so very extraordinary, and
the language of the Commons so very pretty. The Examiner has been down
this month, and was very silly the five or six last papers; but there
is a pamphlet come out, in answer to a letter to the seven Lords
who examined Gregg.(21) The Answer(22) is by the real author of the
Examiner, as I believe; for it is very well written. We had Trapp's poem
on the Duke of Ormond(23) printed here, and the printer sold just eleven
of them. 'Tis a dull piece, not half so good as Stella's; and she is
very modest to compare herself with such a poetaster. I am heartily
sorry for poor Mrs. Parnell's(24) death; she seemed to be an excellent
good-natured young woman, and I believe the poor lad is much afflicted;
they appeared to live perfectly well together. Dilly is not tired at all
with England, but intends to continue here a good while: he is mighty
easy to be at distance from his two sisters-in-law. He finds some sort
of scrub acquaintance; goes now and then in disguise to a play; smokes
his pipe; reads now and then a little trash, and what else the Lord
knows. I see him now and then; for he calls here, and the town being
thin, I am less pestered with company than usual. I have got rid of many
of my solicitors, by doing nothing for them: I have not above eight or
nine left, and I'll be as kind to them. Did I tell you of a knight who
desired me to speak to Lord Treasurer to give him two thousand pounds,
or five hundred pounds a year, until he could get something better? I
honestly delivered my message to the Treasurer, adding, the knight was
a puppy, whom I would not give a groat to save from the gallows. Cole
Reading's father-in-law has been two or three times at me, to recommend
his lights to the Ministry, assuring me that a word of mine would, etc.
Did not that dog use to speak ill of me, and profess to hate me? He
knows not where I lodge, for I told him I lived in the country; and I
have ordered Patrick to deny me constantly to him.--Did the Bishop of
London(25) die in Wexford? poor gentleman! Did he drink the waters? were
you at his burial? was it a great funeral? so far from his friends!
But he was very old: we shall all follow. And yet it was a pity, if
God pleased. He was a good man; not very learned: I believe he died but
poor. Did he leave any charity legacies? who held up his pall? was there
a great sight of clergy? do they design a tomb for him?--Are you sure
it was the Bishop of London? because there is an elderly gentleman here
that we give the same title to: or did you fancy all this in your water,
as others do strange things in their wine? They say these waters trouble
the head, and make people imagine what never came to pass. Do you make
no more of killing a Bishop? are these your Whiggish tricks?--Yes, yes,
I see you are in a fret. O, faith, says you, saucy Presto, I'll break
your head; what, can't one report what one hears, without being made
a jest and a laughing-stock? Are these your English tricks, with a
murrain? And Sacheverell will be the next Bishop? He would be glad of an
addition of two hundred pounds a year to what he has, and that is more
than they will give him, for aught I see. He hates the new Ministry
mortally, and they hate him, and pretend to despise him too. They will
not allow him to have been the occasion of the late change; at least
some of them will not: but my Lord Keeper owned it to me the other day.
No, Mr. Addison does not go to Ireland this year: he pretended he would;
but he is gone to Bath with Pastoral Philips, for his eyes.--So now I
have run over your letter; and I think this shall go to-morrow, which
will be just a fortnight from the last, and bring things to the old form
again, after your rambles to Wexford, and mine to Windsor. Are there not
many literal faults in my letters? I never read them over, and I fancy
there are. What do you do then? do you guess my meaning, or are you
acquainted with my manner of mist