s whipping, upon promise that he
would do so no more, without special orders.

To return from this digression.  When I had crept within four yards of
the throne, I raised myself gently upon my knees, and then striking my
forehead seven times against the ground, I pronounced the following
words, as they had been taught me the night before, _Inckpling
gloffthrobb squut serummblhiop mlashnalt zwin tnodbalkuffh slhiophad
gurdlubh asht_.  This is the compliment, established by the laws of the
land, for all persons admitted to the king’s presence.  It may be
rendered into English thus: “May your celestial majesty outlive the sun,
eleven moons and a half!”  To this the king returned some answer, which,
although I could not understand, yet I replied as I had been directed:
_Fluft drin yalerick dwuldom prastrad mirpush_, which properly signifies,
“My tongue is in the mouth of my friend;” and by this expression was
meant, that I desired leave to bring my interpreter; whereupon the young
man already mentioned was accordingly introduced, by whose intervention I
answered as many questions as his majesty could put in above an hour.  I
spoke in the Balnibarbian tongue, and my interpreter delivered my meaning
in that of Luggnagg.

The king was much delighted with my company, and ordered his
_bliffmarklub_, or high-chamberlain, to appoint a lodging in the court
for me and my interpreter; with a daily allowance for my table, and a
large purse of gold for my common expenses.

I staid three months in this country, out of perfect obedience to his
majesty; who was pleased highly to favour me, and made me very honourable
offers.  But I thought it more consistent with prudence and justice to
pass the remainder of my days with my wife and family.



CHAPTER X.


The Luggnaggians commended.  A particular description of the Struldbrugs,
with many conversations between the author and some eminent persons upon
that subject.

The Luggnaggians are a polite and generous people; and although they are
not without some share of that pride which is peculiar to all Eastern
countries, yet they show themselves courteous to strangers, especially
such who are countenanced by the court.  I had many acquaintance, and
among persons of the best fashion; and being always attended by my
interpreter, the conversation we had was not disagreeable.

One day, in much good company, I was asked by a person of quality,
“whether I had seen any of their _struldbrugs_, or immortals?”  I said,
“I had not;” and desired he would explain to me “what he meant by such an
appellation, applied to a mortal creature.”  He told me “that sometimes,
though very rarely, a child happened to be born in a family, with a red
circular spot in the forehead, directly over the left eyebrow, which was
an infallible mark that it should never die.”  The spot, as he described
it, “was about the compass of a silver threepence, but in the course of
time grew larger, and changed its colour; for at twelve years old it
became green, so continued till five and twenty, then turned to a deep
blue: at five and forty it grew coal black, and as large as an English
shilling; but never admitted any further alteration.”  He said, “these
births were so rare, that he did not believe there could be above eleven
hundred struldbrugs, of both sexes, in the whole kingdom; of which he
computed about fifty in the metropolis, and, among the rest, a young girl
born; about three years ago: that these productions were not peculiar to
any family, but a mere effect of chance; and the children of the
_struldbrugs_ themselves were equally mortal with the rest of the
people.”

I freely own myself to have been struck with inexpressible delight, upon
hearing this account: and the person who gave it me happening to
understand the Balnibarbian language, which I spoke very well, I could
not forbear breaking out into expressions, perhaps a little too
extravagant.  I cried out, as in a rapture, “Happy nation, where every
child hath at least a chance for being immortal!  Happy people, who enjoy
so many living examples of ancient virtue, and have masters ready to
instruct them in the wisdom of all former ages! but happiest, beyond all
comparison, are those excellent _struldbrugs_, who, being born exempt
from that universal calamity of human nature, have their minds free and
disengaged, without the weight and depression of spirits caused by the
continual apprehensions of death!”  I discovered my admiration that I had
not observed any of these illustrious persons at court; the black spot on
the forehead being so remarkable a distinction, that I could not have
easily overlooked it: and it was impossible that his majesty, a most
judicious prince, should not provide himself with a good number of such
wise and able counsellors.  Yet perhaps the virtue of those reverend
sages was too strict for the corrupt and libertine manners of a court:
and we often find by experience, that young men are too opinionated and
volatile to be guided by the sober dictates of their seniors.  However,
since the king was pleased to allow me access to his royal person, I was
r