ere in, and the broad plates of iron fixed for strength
at the four corners of the top and bottom, floated about five feet deep
in water.  I did then, and do now suppose, that the eagle which flew away
with my box was pursued by two or three others, and forced to let me
drop, while he defended himself against the rest, who hoped to share in
the prey.  The plates of iron fastened at the bottom of the box (for
those were the strongest) preserved the balance while it fell, and
hindered it from being broken on the surface of the water. Every joint of
it was well grooved; and the door did not move on hinges, but up and down
like a sash, which kept my closet so tight that very little water came
in.  I got with much difficulty out of my hammock, having first ventured
to draw back the slip-board on the roof already mentioned, contrived on
purpose to let in air, for want of which I found myself almost stifled.

How often did I then wish myself with my dear Glumdalclitch, from whom
one single hour had so far divided me!  And I may say with truth, that in
the midst of my own misfortunes I could not forbear lamenting my poor
nurse, the grief she would suffer for my loss, the displeasure of the
queen, and the ruin of her fortune.  Perhaps many travellers have not
been under greater difficulties and distress than I was at this juncture,
expecting every moment to see my box dashed to pieces, or at least
overset by the first violent blast, or rising wave.  A breach in one
single pane of glass would have been immediate death: nor could any thing
have preserved the windows, but the strong lattice wires placed on the
outside, against accidents in travelling.  I saw the water ooze in at
several crannies, although the leaks were not considerable, and I
endeavoured to stop them as well as I could.  I was not able to lift up
the roof of my closet, which otherwise I certainly should have done, and
sat on the top of it; where I might at least preserve myself some hours
longer, than by being shut up (as I may call it) in the hold.  Or if I
escaped these dangers for a day or two, what could I expect but a
miserable death of cold and hunger?  I was four hours under these
circumstances, expecting, and indeed wishing, every moment to be my last.

I have already told the reader that there were two strong staples fixed
upon that side of my box which had no window, and into which the servant,
who used to carry me on horseback, would put a leathern belt, and buckle
it about his waist.  Being in this disconsolate state, I heard, or at
least thought I heard, some kind of grating noise on that side of my box
where the staples were fixed; and soon after I began to fancy that the
box was pulled or towed along the sea; for I now and then felt a sort of
tugging, which made the waves rise near the tops of my windows, leaving
me almost in the dark.  This gave me some faint hopes of relief, although
I was not able to imagine how it could be brought about.  I ventured to
unscrew one of my chairs, which were always fastened to the floor; and
having made a hard shift to screw it down again, directly under the
slipping-board that I had lately opened, I mounted on the chair, and
putting my mouth as near as I could to the hole, I called for help in a
loud voice, and in all the languages I understood.  I then fastened my
handkerchief to a stick I usually carried, and thrusting it up the hole,
waved it several times in the air, that if any boat or ship were near,
the seamen might conjecture some unhappy mortal to be shut up in the box.

I found no effect from all I could do, but plainly perceived my closet to
be moved along; and in the space of an hour, or better, that side of the
box where the staples were, and had no windows, struck against something
that was hard.  I apprehended it to be a rock, and found myself tossed
more than ever.  I plainly heard a noise upon the cover of my closet,
like that of a cable, and the grating of it as it passed through the
ring.  I then found myself hoisted up, by degrees, at least three feet
higher than I was before.  Whereupon I again thrust up my stick and
handkerchief, calling for help till I was almost hoarse.  In return to
which, I heard a great shout repeated three times, giving me such
transports of joy as are not to be conceived but by those who feel them.
I now heard a trampling over my head, and somebody calling through the
hole with a loud voice, in the English tongue, “If there be any body
below, let them speak.”  I answered, “I was an Englishman, drawn by ill
fortune into the greatest calamity that ever any creature underwent, and
begged, by all that was moving, to be delivered out of the dungeon I was
in.”  The voice replied, “I was safe, for my box was fastened to their
ship; and the carpenter should immediately come and saw a hole in the
cover, large enough to pull me out.”  I answered, “that was needless, and
would take up too much time; for there was no more to be done, but let
one of the crew put his finger into the ring, and take the box out of the
sea into the ship, and so into the captain’s cabin.”  Some of them, upon