ay, will be in town to-night by twelve.

7. This being the day the Parliament was to meet, and the great question
to be determined, I went with Dr. Freind to dine in the City, on purpose
to be out of the way, and we sent our printer to see what was our
fate; but he gave us a most melancholy account of things. The Earl of
Nottingham began, and spoke against a peace, and desired that in their
address they might put in a clause to advise the Queen not to make a
peace without Spain; which was debated, and carried by the Whigs by
about six voices: and this has happened entirely by my Lord Treasurer's
neglect, who did not take timely care to make up all his strength,
although every one of us gave him caution enough. Nottingham has
certainly been bribed. The question is yet only carried in the Committee
of the whole House, and we hope when it is reported to the House
to-morrow, we shall have a majority, by some Scotch lords coming to
town. However, it is a mighty blow and loss of reputation to Lord
Treasurer, and may end in his ruin. I hear the thing only as the printer
brought it, who was at the debate; but how the Ministry take it, or what
their hopes and fears are, I cannot tell until I see them. I shall be
early with the Secretary to-morrow, and then I will tell you more, and
shall write a full account to the Bishop of Clogher to-morrow, and to
the Archbishop of Dublin, if I have time. I am horribly down at present.
I long to know how Lord Treasurer bears this, and what remedy he has.
The Duke of Ormond came this day to town, and was there.

8. I was early this morning with the Secretary, and talked over this
matter. He hoped that when it was reported this day in the House of
Lords, they would disagree with their Committee, and so the matter would
go off, only with a little loss of reputation to the Lord Treasurer. I
dined with Mr. Cockburn, and after, a Scotch member came in, and told
us that the clause was carried against the Court in the House of Lords
almost two to one. I went immediately to Mrs. Masham, and meeting Dr.
Arbuthnot (the Queen's favourite physician), we went together. She was
just come from waiting at the Queen's dinner, and going to her own.
She had heard nothing of the thing being gone against us. It seems Lord
Treasurer had been so negligent that he was with the Queen while the
question was put in the House: I immediately told Mrs. Masham that
either she and Lord Treasurer had joined with the Queen to betray us, or
that they two were betrayed by the Queen: she protested solemnly it
was not the former, and I believed her; but she gave me some lights to
suspect the Queen is changed. For yesterday, when the Queen was
going from the House, where she sat to hear the debate, the Duke
of Shrewsbury, Lord Chamberlain, asked her whether he or the Great
Chamberlain Lindsey(13) ought to lead her out; she answered short,
"Neither of you," and gave her hand to the Duke of Somerset, who was
louder than any in the House for the clause against peace. She gave me
one or two more instances of this sort, which convince me that the Queen
is false, or at least very much wavering. Mr. Masham begged us to stay,
because Lord Treasurer would call, and we were resolved to fall on him
about his negligence in securing a majority. He came, and appeared in
good humour as usual, but I thought his countenance was much cast down.
I rallied him, and desired him to give me his staff, which he did: I
told him, if he would secure it me a week, I would set all right: he
asked how; I said I would immediately turn Lord Marlborough, his
two daughters,(14) the Duke and Duchess of Somerset, and Lord
Cholmondeley,(15) out of all their employments; and I believe he had
not a friend but was of my opinion. Arbuthnot asked how he came not to
secure a majority. He could answer nothing but that he could not
help it, if people would lie and forswear. A poor answer for a great
Minister. There fell from him a Scripture expression, that "the hearts
of kings are unsearchable."(16) I told him it was what I feared, and was
from him the worst news he could tell me. I begged him to know what he
had to trust to: he stuck a little; but at last bid me not fear, for all
would be well yet. We would fain have had him eat a bit where he was,
but he would go home, it was past six: he made me go home with him.
There we found his brother and Mr. Secretary. He made his son take
a list of all in the House of Commons who had places, and yet voted
against the Court, in such a manner as if they should lose their places:
I doubt he is not able to compass it. Lord Keeper came in an hour,
and they were going upon business. So I left him, and returned to Mrs.
Masham; but she had company with her, and I would not stay.--This is
a long journal, and of a day that may produce great alterations, and
hazard the ruin of England. The Whigs are all in triumph; they foretold
how all this would be, but we thought it boasting. Nay, they said the
Parliament should be dissolved before Christmas, and perhaps it may:
this is all your d----d Duchess of Somerset's doings. I warned them
of it nine mont