 printed the
Miscellanies(20) already. Are they on your side yet? If you have my
snuff box, I will have your strong box. Hi, does Stella take snuff
again? or is it only because it is a fine box? Not the Meddle, but the
Medley,(21) you fool. Yes, yes, a wretched thing, because it is against
you Tories: now I think it very fine, and the Examiner a wretched
thing.--Twist your mouth, sirrah. Guiscard, and what you will read
in the Narrative,(22) I ordered to be written, and nothing else. The
Spectator is written by Steele, with Addison's help: it is often very
pretty. Yesterday it was made of a noble hint I gave him long ago
for his Tatlers, about an Indian supposed to write his Travels into
England.(23) I repent he ever had it. I intended to have written a book
on that subject. I believe he has spent it all in one paper, and all
the under-hints there are mine too; but I never see him or Addison. The
Queen is well, but I fear will be no long liver; for I am told she has
sometimes the gout in her bowels (I hate the word bowels). My ears
have been, these three months past, much better than any time these two
years; but now they begin to be a little out of order again. My head is
better, though not right; but I trust to air and walking. You have got
my letter, but what number? I suppose 18. Well, my shin has been
well this month. No, Mrs. Westley(24) came away without her husband's
knowledge, while she was in the country: she has written to me for some
tea. They lie; Mr. Harley's wound was very terrible: he had convulsions,
and very narrowly escaped. The bruise was nine times worse than the
wound: he is weak still. Well, Brooks married; I know all that. I am
sorry for Mrs. Walls's eye: I hope 'tis better. O yes, you are great
walkers: but I have heard them say, "Much talkers, little walkers": and
I believe I may apply the old proverb to you--

     If you talked no more than you walked,
     Those that think you wits would be baulked.

Yes, Stella shall have a large printed Bible: I have put it down among
my commissions for MD. I am glad to hear you have taken the fancy of
intending to read the Bible. Pox take the box; is not it come yet?
This is trusting to your young fellows, young women; 'tis your fault:
I thought you had such power with Sterne that he would fly over Mount
Atlas to serve you. You say you are not splenetic; but if you be, faith,
you will break poor Presto's--I will not say the rest; but I vow to God,
if I could decently come over now, I would, and leave all schemes of
politics and ambition for ever. I have not the opportunities here of
preserving my health by riding, etc., that I have in Ireland; and the
want of health is a great cooler of making one's court. You guess right
about my being bit with a direction from Walls, and the letter from MD:
I believe I described it in one of my last. This goes to-night; and
I must now rise and walk to town, and walk back in the evening. God
Almighty bless and preserve poor MD. Farewell.

O, faith, don't think, saucy noses, that I'll fill this third side: I
can't stay a letter above a fortnight: it must go then; and you would
rather see a short one like this, than want it a week longer.

My humble service to the Dean, and Mrs. Walls, and good, kind, hearty
Mrs. Stoyte, and honest Catherine.




LETTER 22.

CHELSEA, April 28, 1711.

At night. I say at night, because I finished my twenty-first this
morning here, and put it into the post-office my own self, like a good
boy. I think I am a little before you now, young women: I am writing my
twenty-second, and have received your thirteenth. I got to town between
twelve and one, and put on my new gown and periwig, and dined with
Lord Abercorn, where I had not been since the marriage of his son Lord
Peasley,(1) who has got ten thousand pounds with a wife. I am now a
country gentleman. I walked home as I went, and am a little weary, and
am got into bed: I hope in God the air and exercise will do me a little
good. I have been inquiring about statues for Mrs. Ashe: I made Lady
Abercorn(2) go with me; and will send them word next post to Clogher. I
hate to buy for her: I am sure she will maunder. I am going to study.

29. I had a charming walk to and from town to-day: I washed, shaved and
all, and changed gown and periwig, by half an hour after nine, and went
to the Secretary, who told me how he had differed with his friends in
Parliament: I apprehended this division, and told him a great deal of
it. I went to Court, and there several mentioned it to me as what they
much disliked. I dined with the Secretary; and we proposed doing some
business of importance in the afternoon, which he broke to me first, and
said how he and Mr. Harley were convinced of the necessity of it; yet he
suffered one of his under-secretaries to come upon us after dinner, who
stayed till six, and so nothing was done: and what care I? he shall send
to me the next time, and ask twice. To-morrow I go to the election at
Westminster School, where lads are chosen for the University: they say
it is a sight, and a great trial of wits. Our Expedition Fleet is but
just sail