peculations!
they give me the spleen; and that is a disease I was not born to. Let
me alone, sirrahs, and be satisfied: I am, as long as MD and Presto are
well.

     Little wealth,
     And much health,
     And a life by stealth:

that is all we want; and so farewell, dearest MD; Stella, Dingley,
Presto, all together, now and for ever all together. Farewell again and
again.




LETTER 26.

CHELSEA, June 30, 1711.

See what large paper I am forced to take, to write to MD; Patrick has
brought me none clipped; but, faith, the next shall be smaller. I dined
to-day, as I told you, with Dilly at Sir Andrew Fountaine's: there were
we wretchedly punning, and writing together to Lord Pembroke. Dilly
is just such a puppy as ever; and it is so uncouth, after so long an
intermission. My twenty-fifth is gone this evening to the post. I think
I will direct my next (which is this) to Mr. Curry's, and let them send
it to Wexford; and then the next enclosed to Reading. Instruct me how I
shall do. I long to hear from you from Wexford, and what sort of place
it is. The town grows very empty and dull. This evening I have had
a letter from Mr. Philips, the pastoral poet, to get him a certain
employment from Lord Treasurer. I have now had almost all the Whig poets
my solicitors; and I have been useful to Congreve, Steele, and Harrison:
but I will do nothing for Philips; I find he is more a puppy than ever,
so don't solicit for him. Besides, I will not trouble Lord Treasurer,
unless upon some very extraordinary occasion.

July 1. Dilly lies conveniently for me when I come to town from Chelsea
of a Sunday, and go to the Secretary's; so I called at his lodgings this
morning, and sent for my gown, and dressed myself there. He had a letter
from the Bishop, with an account that you were set out for Wexford the
morning he writ, which was June 26, and he had the letter the 30th; that
was very quick: the Bishop says you design to stay there two months or
more. Dilly had also a letter from Tom Ashe, full of Irish news;
that your Lady Lyndon(1) is dead, and I know not what besides of Dr.
Coghill(2) losing his drab, etc. The Secretary was gone to Windsor, and
I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh. Lord Treasurer is at Windsor too; they
will be going and coming all summer, while the Queen is there, and the
town is empty, and I fear I shall be sometimes forced to stoop beneath
my dignity, and send to the ale-house for a dinner. Well, sirrahs, had
you a good journey to Wexford? did you drink ale by the way? were you
never overturned? how many things did you forget? do you lie on straw in
your new town where you are? Cudshoe,(3) the next letter to Presto
will be dated from Wexford. What fine company have you there? what new
acquaintance have you got? You are to write constantly to Mrs. Walls and
Mrs. Stoyte: and the Dean said, "Shall we never hear from you?" "Yes,
Mr. Dean, we'll make bold to trouble you with a letter." Then at
Wexford; when you meet a lady, "Did your waters pass well this morning,
madam?" Will Dingley drink them too? Yes, I warrant; to get her a
stomach. I suppose you are all gamesters at Wexford. Do not lose your
money, sirrah, far from home. I believe I shall go to Windsor in a few
days; at least, the Secretary tells me so. He has a small house there,
with just room enough for him and me; and I would be satisfied to pass a
few days there sometimes. Sirrahs, let me go to sleep, it is past twelve
in our town.

2. Sterne came to me this morning, and tells me he has yet some hopes
of compassing his business: he was with Tom Harley, the secretary of the
Treasury, and made him doubt a little he was in the wrong; the poor man
tells me it will almost undo him if he fails. I called this morning
to see Will Congreve, who lives much by himself, is forced to read for
amusement, and cannot do it without a magnifying-glass. I have set him
very well with the Ministry, and I hope he is in no danger of losing his
place. I dined in the City with Dr. Freind, not among my merchants, but
with a scrub instrument of mischief of mine, whom I never mentioned to
you, nor am like to do. You two little saucy Wexfordians, you are now
drinking waters. You drink waters! you go fiddlestick. Pray God send
them to do you good; if not, faith, next summer you shall come to the
Bath.

3. Lord Peterborow desired to see me this morning at nine; I had not
seen him before since he came home. I met Mrs. Manley(4) there, who
was soliciting him to get some pension or reward for her service in
the cause, by writing her Atalantis, and prosecution, etc., upon it.
I seconded her, and hope they will do something for the poor woman. My
lord kept me two hours upon politics: he comes home very sanguine;
he has certainly done great things at Savoy and Vienna, by his
negotiations: he is violent against a peace, and finds true what I writ
to him, that the Ministry seems for it. He reasons well; yet I am for a
peace. I took leave of Lady Kerry, who goes to-morrow for Ireland; she
picks up Lord Shelburne and Mrs. Pratt at Lord Shelburne's house. I was
this evening with Lord Treasurer: Tom Harley was there