
fear, Manley is undone, etc.

10. To-day I dined with Lord Mountjoy at Kensington; saw my mistress,
Ophy Butler's(5) wife, who is grown a little charmless. I sat till ten
in the evening with Addison and Steele: Steele will certainly lose his
Gazetteer's place, all the world detesting his engaging in parties.(6)
At ten I went to the Coffee-house, hoping to find Lord Radnor,(7) whom I
had not seen. He was there; and for an hour and a half we talked treason
heartily against the Whigs, their baseness and ingratitude. And I
am come home, rolling resentments in my mind, and framing schemes of
revenge: full of which (having written down some hints) I go to bed.
I am afraid MD dined at home, because it is Sunday; and there was the
little half-pint of wine: for God's sake, be good girls, and all will be
well. Ben Tooke(8) was with me this morning.

11. Seven, morning. I am rising to go to Jervas to finish my picture,
and 'tis shaving-day, so good-morrow MD; but don't keep me now, for I
can't stay; and pray dine with the Dean, but don't lose your money. I
long to hear from you, etc.--Ten at night. I sat four hours this morning
to Jervas, who has given my picture quite another turn, and now approves
it entirely; but we must have the approbation of the town. If I were
rich enough, I would get a copy of it, and bring it over. Mr. Addison
and I dined together at his lodgings, and I sat with him part of this
evening; and I am now come home to write an hour. Patrick(9) observes,
that the rabble here are much more inquisitive in politics than
in Ireland. Every day we expect changes, and the Parliament to be
dissolved. Lord Wharton expects every day to be out: he is working like
a horse for elections; and, in short, I never saw so great a ferment
among all sorts of people. I had a miserable letter from Joe last
Saturday, telling me Mr. Pratt(10) refuses payment of his money. I
have told it Mr. Addison, and will to Lord Wharton; but I fear with no
success. However, I will do all I can.

12. To-day I presented Mr. Ford(11) to the Duke of Ormond; and paid my
first visit to Lord President,(12) with whom I had much discourse; but
put him always off when he began to talk of Lord Wharton in relation
to me, till he urged it: then I said, he knew I never expected anything
from Lord Wharton, and that Lord Wharton knew that I understood it so.
He said that he had written twice to Lord Wharton about me, who both
times said nothing at all to that part of his letter. I am advised not
to meddle in the affair of the First-Fruits, till this hurry is a little
over, which still depends, and we are all in the dark. Lord President
told me he expects every day to be out, and has done so these two
months. I protest, upon my life, I am heartily weary of this town, and
wish I had never stirred.

13. I went this morning to the city, to see Mr. Stratford the Hamburg
merchant, my old schoolfellow;(13) but calling at Bull's(14) on Ludgate
Hill, he forced me to his house at Hampstead to dinner among a great
deal of ill company; among the rest Mr. Hoadley,(15) the Whig clergyman,
so famous for acting the contrary part to Sacheverell:(16) but
tomorrow I design again to see Stratford. I was glad, however, to be
at Hampstead, where I saw Lady Lucy(17) and Moll Stanhope. I hear very
unfortunate news of Mrs. Long;(18) she and her comrade(19) have broke up
house, and she is broke for good and all, and is gone to the country: I
should be extremely sorry if this be true.

14. To-day, I saw Patty Rolt,(20) who heard I was in town; and I dined
with Stratford at a merchant's in the city, where I drank the first
Tokay wine I ever saw; and it is admirable, yet not to the degree
I expected. Stratford is worth a plum,(21) and is now lending the
Government forty thousand pounds; yet we were educated together at the
same school and university.(22) We hear the Chancellor(23) is to be
suddenly out, and Sir Simon Harcourt(24) to succeed him: I am come early
home, not caring for the Coffee-house.

15. To-day Mr. Addison, Colonel Freind,(25) and I, went to see the
million lottery(26) drawn at Guildhall. The jackanapes of bluecoat boys
gave themselves such airs in pulling out the tickets, and showed white
hands open to the company, to let us see there was no cheat. We dined
at a country-house near Chelsea, where Mr. Addison often retires; and
to-night, at the Coffee-house, we hear Sir Simon Harcourt is made
Lord Keeper; so that now we expect every moment the Parliament will be
dissolved; but I forgot that this letter will not go in three or four
days, and that my news will be stale, which I should therefore put in
the last paragraph. Shall I send this letter before I hear from MD,
or shall I keep it to lengthen? I have not yet seen Stella's mother,
because I will not see Lady Giffard; but I will contrive to go there
when Lady Giffard is abroad. I forgot to mark my two former letters; but
I remember this is Number 3, and I have not yet had Number 1 from MD;
but I shall by Monday, which I reckon will be just a fortnight after you
had my first. I am resolved to bring over a great deal of china. I 