er that I
have near a hundred honorary letters from several parts of Europe (some
as far as Muscovy) in praise of my performance. Besides several others,
which, as I have been credibly informed, were open'd in the post-office
and never sent me. 'Tis true the Inquisition in Portugal was pleased to
burn my predictions, and condem the author and readers of them; but I
hope at the same time, it will be consider'd in how deplorable a state
learning lies at present in that kingdom: And with the profoundest
veneration for crown'd heads, I will presume to add, that it a little
concerned His Majesty of Portugal, to interpose his authority in behalf
of a scholar and a gentleman, the subject of a nation with which he
is now in so strict an alliance. But the other kingdoms and states of
Europe have treated me with more candor and generosity. If I had leave
to print the Latin letters transmitted to me from foreign parts,
they would fill a volume, and be a full defence against all that Mr.
Partridge, or his accomplices of the Portugal Inquisition, will be able
to object; who, by the way, are the only enemies my predictions have
ever met with at home or abroad. But I hope I know better what is due to
the honour of a learned correspondence in so tender a point. Yet some
of those illustrious persons will perhaps excuse me from transcribing a
passage or two in my own vindication. The most learned Monsieur Leibnits
thus addresses to me his third letter: Illustrissimo Bickerstaffio
Astrologiae instauratori, etc. Monsieur le Clerc, quoting my predictions
in a treatise he published last year, is pleased to say, Ita nuperrime
Bickerstaffius magnum illud Angliae fidus. Another great professor
writing of me, has these words: Bickerstaffius, nobilis Anglus,
Astrologorum hujusce Saeculi facile Princeps. Signior Magliabecchi, the
Great Duke's famous library-keeper, spends almost his whole letter in
compliments and praises. 'Tis true, the renowned Professor of Astronomy
at Utrecht, seems to differ from me in one article; but it is in a
modest manner, that becomes a philosopher; as, Pace tanti viri dixerim:
And pag.55, he seems to lay the error upon the printer (as indeed
it ought) and says, vel forsan error typographi, cum alioquin
Bickerstaffius ver doctissimus, etc.

If Mr. Partridge had followed this example in the controversy between
us, he might have spared me the trouble of justifying myself in so
publick a manner. I believe few men are readier to own their errors than
I, or more thankful to those who will please to inform me of them. But
it seems this gentleman, instead of encouraging the progress of his own
art, is pleased to look upon all attempts of that kind as an invasion
of his province. He has been indeed so wise to make no objection against
the truth of my predictions, except in one single point, relating
to himself: And to demonstrate how much men are blinded by their own
partiality, I do solemnly assure the reader, that he is the only person
from whom I ever heard that objection offered; which consideration
alone, I think, will take off all its weight.

With my utmost endeavours, I have not been able to trace above two
objections ever made against the truth of my last year's prophecies: The
first was of a French man, who was pleased to publish to the world, that
the Cardinal de Noailles was still alive, notwithstanding the pretended
prophecy of Monsieur Biquerstaffe: But how far a Frenchman, a papist,
and an enemy is to be believed in his own case against an English
Protestant, who is true to his government, I shall leave to the candid
and impartial reader.

The other objection is the unhappy occasion of this discourse, and
relates to an article in my predictions, which foretold the death of Mr.
Partridge, to happen on March 29, 1708. This he is pleased to contradict
absolutely in the almanack he has published for the present year, and
in that ungentlemanly manner (pardon the expression) as I have above
related. In that work he very roundly asserts, That he is not only now
alive, but was likewise alive upon that very 29th of March, when I had
foretold he should die. This is the subject of the present controversy
between us; which I design to handle with all brevity, perspicuity, and
calmness: In this dispute, I am sensible the eyes not only of England,
but of all Europe, will be upon us; and the learned in every country
will, I doubt not, take part on that side, where they find most
appearance of reason and truth.

Without entering into criticisms of chronology about the hour of his
death, I shall only prove that Mr. Partridge is not alive. And my first
argument is thus: Above a thousand gentelmen having bought his almanacks
for this year, merely to find what he said against me; at every line
they read, they would lift up their eyes, and cry out, betwixt rage and
laughter, "They were sure no man alive ever writ such damn'd stuff
as this." Neither did I ever hear that opinion disputed: So that Mr.
Partridge lies under a dilemma, either of disowning his almanack, or
allowing himself to be "no man alive". But now if an uninformed
carcase w