e
unnatural appetites in both sexes, so common among us.  But nature, it
seems, has not been so expert a school-mistress; and these politer
pleasures are entirely the productions of art and reason on our side of
the globe.



CHAPTER VIII.


The author relates several particulars of the _Yahoos_.  The great
virtues of the _Houyhnhnms_.  The education and exercise of their youth.
Their general assembly.

As I ought to have understood human nature much better than I supposed it
possible for my master to do, so it was easy to apply the character he
gave of the _Yahoos_ to myself and my countrymen; and I believed I could
yet make further discoveries, from my own observation.  I therefore often
begged his honour to let me go among the herds of _Yahoos_ in the
neighbourhood; to which he always very graciously consented, being
perfectly convinced that the hatred I bore these brutes would never
suffer me to be corrupted by them; and his honour ordered one of his
servants, a strong sorrel nag, very honest and good-natured, to be my
guard; without whose protection I durst not undertake such adventures.
For I have already told the reader how much I was pestered by these
odious animals, upon my first arrival; and I afterwards failed very
narrowly, three or four times, of falling into their clutches, when I
happened to stray at any distance without my hanger.  And I have reason
to believe they had some imagination that I was of their own species,
which I often assisted myself by stripping up my sleeves, and showing my
naked arms and breasts in their sight, when my protector was with me.  At
which times they would approach as near as they durst, and imitate my
actions after the manner of monkeys, but ever with great signs of hatred;
as a tame jackdaw with cap and stockings is always persecuted by the wild
ones, when he happens to be got among them.

They are prodigiously nimble from their infancy.  However, I once caught
a young male of three years old, and endeavoured, by all marks of
tenderness, to make it quiet; but the little imp fell a squalling, and
scratching, and biting with such violence, that I was forced to let it
go; and it was high time, for a whole troop of old ones came about us at
the noise, but finding the cub was safe (for away it ran), and my sorrel
nag being by, they durst not venture near us.  I observed the young
animal’s flesh to smell very rank, and the stink was somewhat between a
weasel and a fox, but much more disagreeable.  I forgot another
circumstance (and perhaps I might have the reader’s pardon if it were
wholly omitted), that while I held the odious vermin in my hands, it
voided its filthy excrements of a yellow liquid substance all over my
clothes; but by good fortune there was a small brook hard by, where I
washed myself as clean as I could; although I durst not come into my
master’s presence until I were sufficiently aired.

By what I could discover, the _Yahoos_ appear to be the most unteachable
of all animals: their capacity never reaching higher than to draw or
carry burdens.  Yet I am of opinion, this defect arises chiefly from a
perverse, restive disposition; for they are cunning, malicious,
treacherous, and revengeful.  They are strong and hardy, but of a
cowardly spirit, and, by consequence, insolent, abject, and cruel.  It is
observed, that the red haired of both sexes are more libidinous and
mischievous than the rest, whom yet they much exceed in strength and
activity.

The _Houyhnhnms_ keep the _Yahoos_ for present use in huts not far from
the house; but the rest are sent abroad to certain fields, where they dig
up roots, eat several kinds of herbs, and search about for carrion, or
sometimes catch weasels and _luhimuhs_ (a sort of wild rat), which they
greedily devour.  Nature has taught them to dig deep holes with their
nails on the side of a rising ground, wherein they lie by themselves;
only the kennels of the females are larger, sufficient to hold two or
three cubs.

They swim from their infancy like frogs, and are able to continue long
under water, where they often take fish, which the females carry home to
their young.  And, upon this occasion, I hope the reader will pardon my
relating an odd adventure.

Being one day abroad with my protector the sorrel nag, and the weather
exceeding hot, I entreated him to let me bathe in a river that was near.
He consented, and I immediately stripped myself stark naked, and went
down softly into the stream.  It happened that a young female _Yahoo_,
standing behind a bank, saw the whole proceeding, and inflamed by desire,
as the nag and I conjectured, came running with all speed, and leaped
into the water, within five yards of the place where I bathed.  I was
never in my life so terribly frightened.  The nag was grazing at some
distance, not suspecting any harm.  She embraced me after a most fulsome
manner.  I roared as loud as I could, and the nag came galloping towards
me, whereupon she quitted her grasp, with the utmost reluctancy, and
leaped upon the opposite bank, where she stood gazing and howling all the
time I was putting on my clothes.

This wa