Answer me
that, rogues. Your being with Goody Walls is excuse enough: I find I was
mistaken in the sex, 'tis a boy.(12) Yes, I understand your cypher,
and Stella guesses right, as she always does. He(13) gave me al bsadnuk
lboinlpl dfaonr ufainf btoy dpionufnad,(14) which I sent him again by
Mr. Lewis, to whom I writ a very complaining letter that was showed him;
and so the matter ended. He told me he had a quarrel with me; I said I
had another with him, and we returned to our friendship, and I should
think he loves me as well as a great Minister can love a man in so
short a time. Did not I do right? I am glad at heart you have got your
palsy-water;(15) pray God Almighty it may do my dearest little Stella
good! I suppose Mrs. Edgworth set out last Monday se'ennight. Yes, I do
read the Examiners, and they are written very finely, as you judge. I
do not think they are too severe on the Duke;(16) they only tax him of
avarice, and his avarice has ruined us. You may count upon all things in
them to be true. The author has said it is not Prior, but perhaps it
may be Atterbury.--Now, Madam Dingley, says she, 'tis fine weather, says
she; yes, says she, and we have got to our new lodgings. I compute you
ought to save eight pounds by being in the others five months; and you
have no more done it than eight thousand. I am glad you are rid of that
squinting, blinking Frenchman. I will give you a bill on Parvisol for
five pounds for the half-year. And must I go on at four shillings a
week, and neither eat nor drink for it? Who the Devil said Atterbury and
your Dean were alike? I never saw your Chancellor, nor his chaplain.
The latter has a good deal of learning, and is a well-wisher to be an
author: your Chancellor is an excellent man. As for Patrick's bird, he
bought him for his tameness, and is grown the wildest I ever saw. His
wings have been quilled thrice, and are now up again: he will be able
to fly after us to Ireland, if he be willing.--Yes, Mrs. Stella, Dingley
writes more like Presto than you; for all you superscribed the letter,
as who should say, Why should not I write like our Presto as well as
Dingley? You with your awkward SS;(17) cannot you write them thus, SS?
No, but always SSS. Spiteful sluts, to affront Presto's writing; as that
when you shut your eyes you write most like Presto. I know the time when
I did not write to you half so plain as I do now; but I take pity on you
both. I am very much concerned for Mrs. Walls's eyes. Walls says nothing
of it to me in his letter dated after yours. You say, "If she recovers,
she may lose her sight." I hope she is in no danger of her life. Yes,
Ford is as sober as I please: I use him to walk with me as an easy
companion, always ready for what I please, when I am weary of business
and Ministers. I don't go to a Coffee-house twice a month. I am very
regular in going to sleep before eleven.--And so you say that Stella
is a pretty girl; and so she be, and methinks I see her just now as
handsome as the day is long. Do you know what? when I am writing in
our language, I make up my mouth just as if I was speaking it. I caught
myself at it just now. And I suppose Dingley is so fair and so fresh as
a lass in May, and has her health, and no spleen.--In your account
you sent do you reckon as usual from the 1st of November(18) was
twelvemonth? Poor Stella, will not Dingley leave her a little daylight
to write to Presto? Well, well, we'll have daylight shortly, spite of
her teeth; and zoo(19) must cly Lele and Hele, and Hele aden. Must loo
mimitate Pdfr, pay? Iss, and so la shall. And so lele's fol ee rettle.
Dood-mollow.--At night. Mrs. Barton sent this morning to invite me to
dinner; and there I dined, just in that genteel manner that MD used when
they would treat some better sort of body than usual.

8. O dear MD, my heart is almost broken. You will hear the thing
before this comes to you. I writ a full account of it this night to the
Archbishop of Dublin; and the Dean may tell you the particulars from
the Archbishop. I was in a sorry way to write, but thought it might be
proper to send a true account of the fact; for you will hear a thousand
lying circumstances. It is of Mr. Harley's being stabbed this afternoon,
at three o'clock, at a Committee of the Council. I was playing Lady
Catharine Morris's(20) cards, where I dined, when young Arundel(21) came
in with the story. I ran away immediately to the Secretary, which was
in my way: no one was at home. I met Mrs. St. John in her chair; she had
heard it imperfectly. I took a chair to Mr. Harley, who was asleep, and
they hope in no danger; but he has been out of order, and was so when he
came abroad to-day, and it may put him in a fever: I am in mortal pain
for him. That desperate French villain, Marquis de Guiscard,(22) stabbed
Mr. Harley. Guiscard was taken up by Mr. Secretary St. John's warrant
for high treason, and brought before the Lords to be examined; there
he stabbed Mr. Harley. I have told all the particulars already to the
Archbishop. I have now, at nine, sent again, and they tell me he is in a
fair way. Pray pardon my distraction; 