ded him to a
printer,(19) whom I sent for, and settled the matter between them this
evening. Harrison has just left me, and I am tired with correcting his
trash.

12. I was this morning upon some business with Mr. Secretary St. John,
and he made me promise to dine with him; which otherwise I would have
done with Mr. Harley, whom I have not been with these ten days. I cannot
but think they have mighty difficulties upon them; yet I always find
them as easy and disengaged as schoolboys on a holiday. Harley has the
procuring of five or six millions on his shoulders, and the Whigs will
not lend a groat;(20) which is the only reason of the fall of stocks:
for they are like Quakers and fanatics, that will only deal among
themselves, while all others deal indifferently with them. Lady
Marlborough offers, if they will let her keep her employments, never to
come into the Queen's presence. The Whigs say the Duke of Marlborough
will serve no more; but I hope and think otherwise. I would to Heaven
I were this minute with MD at Dublin; for I am weary of politics, that
give me such melancholy prospects.

13. O, faith, I had an ugly giddy fit last night in my chamber, and I
have got a new box of pills to take, and hope I shall have no more
this good while. I would not tell you before, because it would vex you,
little rogues; but now it is over. I dined to-day with Lord Shelburne;
and to-day little Harrison's new Tatler came out: there is not much in
it, but I hope he will mend. You must understand that, upon Steele's
leaving off, there were two or three scrub Tatlers(21) came out, and one
of them holds on still, and to-day it advertised against Harrison's;
and so there must be disputes which are genuine, like the strops for
razors.(22) I am afraid the little toad has not the true vein for it.
I will tell you a copy of verses. When Mr. St. John was turned out from
being Secretary at War, three years ago, he retired to the country:
there he was talking of something he would have written over his
summer-house, and a gentleman gave him these verses--

     From business and the noisy world retired,
     Nor vexed by love, nor by ambition fired;
     Gently I wait the call of Charon's boat,
     Still drinking like a fish, and ------- like a stoat.

He swore to me he could hardly bear the jest; for he pretended to retire
like a philosopher, though he was but twenty-eight years old: and I
believe the thing was true: for he had been a thorough rake. I think the
three grave lines do introduce the last well enough. Od so, but I will
go sleep; I sleep early now.

14. O, faith, young women, I want a letter from MD; 'tis now nineteen
days since I had the last: and where have I room to answer it, pray? I
hope I shall send this away without any answer at all; for I'll hasten
it, and away it goes on Tuesday, by which time this side will be full. I
will send it two days sooner on purpose out of spite; and the very next
day after, you must know, your letter will come, and then 'tis too late,
and I will so laugh, never saw the like! 'Tis spring with us already. I
ate asparagus t'other day. Did you ever see such a frostless winter? Sir
Andrew Fountaine lies still extremely ill; it costs him ten guineas a
day to doctors, surgeons, and apothecaries, and has done so these three
weeks. I dined to-day with Mr. Ford; he sometimes chooses to dine at
home, and I am content to dine with him; and at night I called at the
Coffee-house, where I had not been in a week, and talked coldly a while
with Mr. Addison. All our friendship and dearness are off: we are civil
acquaintance, talk words of course, of when we shall meet, and that is
all. I have not been at any house with him these six weeks: t'other day
we were to have dined together at the Comptroller's;(23) but I sent my
excuses, being engaged to the Secretary of State. Is not it odd? But
I think he has used me ill; and I have used him too well, at least his
friend Steele.

15. It has cost me three guineas to-day for a periwig.(24) I am undone!
It was made by a Leicester lad, who married Mr. Worrall's daughter,
where my mother lodged;(25) so I thought it would be cheap, and
especially since he lives in the city. Well, London lickpenny:(26) I
find it true. I have given Harrison hints for another Tatler to-morrow.
The jackanapes wants a right taste: I doubt he won't do. I dined with my
friend Lewis of the Secretary's office, and am got home early, because I
have much business to do; but before I begin, I must needs say something
to MD, faith--No, faith, I lie, it is but nineteen days to-day since my
last from MD. I have got Mr. Harley to promise that whatever changes are
made in the Council, the Bishop of Clogher shall not be removed, and he
has got a memorial accordingly. I will let the Bishop know so much in a
post or two. This is a secret; but I know he has enemies, and they shall
not be gratified, if they designed any such thing, which perhaps they
might; for some changes there will be made. So drink up your claret, and
be quiet, and do not lose your money.

16. Morning. Faith, I will send this letter to-day to sham