roducing
his credentials under the signet royal, which he applied close to my
eyes, spoke about ten minutes without any signs of anger, but with a kind
of determinate resolution, often pointing forwards, which, as I
afterwards found, was towards the capital city, about half a mile
distant; whither it was agreed by his majesty in council that I must be
conveyed.  I answered in few words, but to no purpose, and made a sign
with my hand that was loose, putting it to the other (but over his
excellency’s head for fear of hurting him or his train) and then to my
own head and body, to signify that I desired my liberty.  It appeared
that he understood me well enough, for he shook his head by way of
disapprobation, and held his hand in a posture to show that I must be
carried as a prisoner.  However, he made other signs to let me understand
that I should have meat and drink enough, and very good treatment.
Whereupon I once more thought of attempting to break my bonds; but again,
when I felt the smart of their arrows upon my face and hands, which were
all in blisters, and many of the darts still sticking in them, and
observing likewise that the number of my enemies increased, I gave tokens
to let them know that they might do with me what they pleased.  Upon
this, the _hurgo_ and his train withdrew, with much civility and cheerful
countenances.  Soon after I heard a general shout, with frequent
repetitions of the words _Peplom selan_; and I felt great numbers of
people on my left side relaxing the cords to such a degree, that I was
able to turn upon my right, and to ease myself with making water; which I
very plentifully did, to the great astonishment of the people; who,
conjecturing by my motion what I was going to do, immediately opened to
the right and left on that side, to avoid the torrent, which fell with
such noise and violence from me.  But before this, they had daubed my
face and both my hands with a sort of ointment, very pleasant to the
smell, which, in a few minutes, removed all the smart of their arrows.
These circumstances, added to the refreshment I had received by their
victuals and drink, which were very nourishing, disposed me to sleep.  I
slept about eight hours, as I was afterwards assured; and it was no
wonder, for the physicians, by the emperor’s order, had mingled a sleepy
potion in the hogsheads of wine.

It seems, that upon the first moment I was discovered sleeping on the
ground, after my landing, the emperor had early notice of it by an
express; and determined in council, that I should be tied in the manner I
have related, (which was done in the night while I slept;) that plenty of
meat and drink should be sent to me, and a machine prepared to carry me
to the capital city.

This resolution perhaps may appear very bold and dangerous, and I am
confident would not be imitated by any prince in Europe on the like
occasion.  However, in my opinion, it was extremely prudent, as well as
generous: for, supposing these people had endeavoured to kill me with
their spears and arrows, while I was asleep, I should certainly have
awaked with the first sense of smart, which might so far have roused my
rage and strength, as to have enabled me to break the strings wherewith I
was tied; after which, as they were not able to make resistance, so they
could expect no mercy.

These people are most excellent mathematicians, and arrived to a great
perfection in mechanics, by the countenance and encouragement of the
emperor, who is a renowned patron of learning.  This prince has several
machines fixed on wheels, for the carriage of trees and other great
weights.  He often builds his largest men of war, whereof some are nine
feet long, in the woods where the timber grows, and has them carried on
these engines three or four hundred yards to the sea.  Five hundred
carpenters and engineers were immediately set at work to prepare the
greatest engine they had.  It was a frame of wood raised three inches
from the ground, about seven feet long, and four wide, moving upon
twenty-two wheels.  The shout I heard was upon the arrival of this
engine, which, it seems, set out in four hours after my landing.  It was
brought parallel to me, as I lay.  But the principal difficulty was to
raise and place me in this vehicle.  Eighty poles, each of one foot high,
were erected for this purpose, and very strong cords, of the bigness of
packthread, were fastened by hooks to many bandages, which the workmen
had girt round my neck, my hands, my body, and my legs.  Nine hundred of
the strongest men were employed to draw up these cords, by many pulleys
fastened on the poles; and thus, in less than three hours, I was raised
and slung into the engine, and there tied fast.  All this I was told;
for, while the operation was performing, I lay in a profound sleep, by
the force of that soporiferous medicine infused into my liquor.  Fifteen
hundred of the emperor’s largest horses, each about four inches and a
half high, were employed to draw me towards the metropolis, which, as I
said, was half a mile distant.

About four hours after we began our journey, I awaked by a 