 same house with us) and interrupted all my scheme. I
have just left him: it is late, etc.

2. I have been now five days at Windsor, and Patrick has been drunk
three times that I have seen, and oftener I believe. He has lately had
clothes that have cost me five pounds, and the dog thinks he has the
whip-hand of me: he begins to master me; so now I am resolved to part
with him, and will use him without the least pity. The Secretary and
I have been walking three or four hours to-day. The Duchess of
Shrewsbury(12) asked him, was not that Dr.--Dr.--and she could not say
my name in English, but said Dr. Presto, which is Italian for Swift.
Whimsical enough, as Billy Swift(13) says. I go to-morrow with the
Secretary to his house at Bucklebury, twenty-five miles from hence,
and return early on Sunday morning. I will leave this letter behind me
locked up, and give you an account of my journey when I return. I had
a letter yesterday from the Bishop of Clogher, who is coming up to his
Parliament. Have you any correspondence with him to Wexford? Methinks,
I now long for a letter from you, dated Wexford, July 24, etc. O Lord,
that would be so pretending;(14) and then, says you, Stella can't write
much, because it is bad to write when one drinks the waters; and I
think, says you, I find myself better already, but I cannot tell yet
whether it be the journey or the waters. Presto is so silly to-night;
yes he be; but Presto loves MD dearly, as hope saved.

3. Morning. I am to go this day at noon, as I told you, to Bucklebury:
we dine at twelve, and expect to be there in four hours. I cannot bid
you good-night now, because I shall be twenty-five miles from this paper
to-night, and so my journal must have a break; so good-morrow, etc.

4, 5. I dined yesterday at Bucklebury, where we lay two nights, and set
out this morning at eight, and were here at twelve; in four hours we
went twenty-six miles. Mr. Secretary was a perfect country gentleman at
Bucklebury: he smoked tobacco with one or two neighbours; he inquired
after the wheat in such a field; he went to visit his hounds, and
knew all their names; he and his lady saw me to my chamber just in the
country fashion. His house is in the midst of near three thousand pounds
a year he had by his lady,(15) who is descended from Jack Newbury, of
whom books and ballads are written; and there is an old picture of him
in the house. She is a great favourite of mine. I lost church to-day;
but I dressed and shaved, and went to Court, and would not dine with the
Secretary, but engaged myself to a private dinner with Mr. Lewis, and
one friend more. We go to London to-morrow; for Lord Dartmouth, the
other Secretary, is come, and they are here their weeks by turns.

6. Lord Treasurer comes every Saturday to Windsor, and goes away on
Monday or Tuesday. I was with him this morning at his levee, for one
cannot see him otherwise here, he is so hurried: we had some talk; and
I told him I would stay this week at Windsor by myself, where I can have
more leisure to do some business that concerns them. Lord Treasurer
and the Secretary thought to mortify me; for they told me they had been
talking a great deal of me to-day to the Queen, and she said she had
never heard of me. I told them that was their fault, and not hers, etc.,
and so we laughed. I dined with the Secretary, and let him go to London
at five without me; and here am I alone in the Prebendary's house, which
Mr. Secretary has taken; only Mr. Lewis is in my neighbourhood, and we
shall be good company. The Vice-Chamberlain,(16) and Mr. Masham, and the
Green Cloth,(17) have promised me dinners. I shall want but four till
Mr. Secretary returns. We have a music-meeting in our town to-night.
I went to the rehearsal of it, and there was Margarita,(18) and her
sister, and another drab, and a parcel of fiddlers: I was weary, and
would not go to the meeting, which I am sorry for, because I heard it
was a great assembly. Mr. Lewis came from it, and sat with me till just
now; and 'tis late.

7. I can do no business, I fear, because Mr. Lewis, who has nothing or
little to do here, sticks close to me. I dined today with the gentlemen
ushers, among scurvy company; but the Queen was hunting the stag till
four this afternoon, and she drove in her chaise above forty miles, and
it was five before we went to dinner. Here are fine walks about this
town. I sometimes walk up the avenue.

8. There was a Drawing-room to-day at Court; but so few company, that
the Queen sent for us into her bed-chamber, where we made our bows, and
stood about twenty of us round the room, while she looked at us round
with her fan in her mouth, and once a minute said about three words to
some that were nearest her, and then she was told dinner was ready, and
went out. I dined at the Green Cloth, by Mr. Scarborow's(19) invitation,
who is in waiting. It is much the best table in England, and costs
the Queen a thousand pounds a month while she is at Windsor or Hampton
Court, and is the only mark of magnificence or hospitality I can see in
the Queen's family: it is designed to entertain foreign Ministers, an