 has he ever made me an invitation: either he dares
not, or is such a thoughtless Tisdall(9) fellow, that he never minds(10)
it. So what care I for his wit? for he is the worst company in the
world, till he has a bottle of wine in his head. I cannot write
straighter in bed, so you must be content.--At night in bed. Stay, let
me see where's this letter to MD among these papers? Oh! here. Well, I
will go on now; but I am very busy (smoke the new pen.) I dined with Mr.
Harley to-day, and am invited there again on Sunday. I have now leave
to write to the Primate and Archbishop of Dublin, that the Queen has
granted the First-Fruits; but they are to take no notice of it, till a
letter is sent them by the Queen's orders from Lord Dartmouth, Secretary
of State, to signify it. The bishops are to be made a corporation, to
dispose of the revenue, etc.; and I shall write to the Archbishop of
Dublin to-morrow (I have had no giddiness to-day). I know not whether
they will have any occasion for me longer to be here; nor can I judge
till I see what letter the Queen sends to the bishops, and what they
will do upon it. If despatch be used, it may be done in six weeks; but
I cannot judge. They sent me to-day a new Commission, signed by the
Primate and Archbishop of Dublin,(11) and promise me letters to the two
archbishops here; but mine a ---- for it all. The thing is done, and has
been so these ten days; though I had only leave to tell it to-day. I had
this day likewise a letter from the Bishop of Clogher, who complains of
my not writing; and, what vexes me, says he knows you have long letters
from me every week. Why do you tell him so? 'Tis not right, faith: but
I won't be angry with MD at distance. I writ to him last post, before I
had his; and will write again soon, since I see he expects it, and that
Lord and Lady Mountjoy(12) put him off upon me, to give themselves ease.
Lastly, I had this day a letter from a certain naughty rogue called MD,
and it was N. 5; which I shall not answer to-night, I thank you. No,
faith, I have other fish to fry; but to-morrow or next day will be time
enough. I have put MD's commissions in a memorandum paper. I think I
have done all before, and remember nothing but this to-day about glasses
and spectacles and spectacle cases. I have no commission from Stella,
but the chocolate and handkerchiefs; and those are bought, and I expect
they will be soon sent. I have been with, and sent to, Mr. Sterne, two
or three times to know; but he was not within. Odds my life, what am I
doing? I must go write and do business.

4. I dined to-day at Kensington, with Addison, Steele, etc., came home,
and writ a short letter to the Archbishop of Dublin, to let him know
the Queen has granted the thing, etc. I writ in the Coffee-house, for
I stayed at Kensington till nine, and am plaguy weary; for Colonel
Proud(13) was very ill company, and I will never be of a party with him
again; and I drank punch, and that and ill company has made me hot.

5. I was with Mr. Harley from dinner to seven this night, and went to
the Coffee-house, where Dr. Davenant(14) would fain have had me gone and
drink a bottle of wine at his house hard by, with Dr. Chamberlen,(15)
but the puppy used so many words, that I was afraid of his company; and
though we promised to come at eight, I sent a messenger to him, that
Chamberlen was going to a patient, and therefore we would put it off
till another time: so he, and the Comptroller,(16) and I, were prevailed
on by Sir Matthew Dudley to go to his house, where I stayed till twelve,
and left them. Davenant has been teasing me to look over some of his
writings that he is going to publish; but the rogue is so fond of his
own productions, that I hear he will not part with a syllable; and he
has lately put out a foolish pamphlet, called The Third Part of Tom
Double; to make his court to the Tories, whom he had left.

6. I was to-day gambling(17) in the City to see Patty Rolt, who is going
to Kingston, where she lodges; but, to say the truth, I had a mind for a
walk to exercise myself, and happened to be disengaged: for dinners are
ten times more plentiful with me here than ever, or than in Dublin. I
won't answer your letter yet, because I am busy. I hope to send this
before I have another from MD: it would be a sad thing to answer two
letters together, as MD does from Presto. But when the two sides are
full, away the letter shall go, that is certain, like it or not like it;
and that will be about three days hence, for the answering-night will be
a long one.

7. I dined to-day at Sir Richard Temple's, with Congreve, Vanbrugh,
Lieutenant-General Farrington,(18) etc. Vanbrugh, I believe I told you,
had a long quarrel with me about those verses on his house;(19) but we
were very civil and cold. Lady Marlborough used to tease him with them,
which had made him angry, though he be a good-natured fellow. It was a
Thanksgiving-day,(20) and I was at Court, where the Queen passed us by
with all Tories about her; not one Whig: Buckingham,(21) Rochester,(22)
Leeds,(23) Shrewsbury, Berkeley of Stratton, Lord Keeper Harcourt, Mr.
Ha