 see him. Mr. Addison and I
met once more since, and I supped with him; I believe I told you so
somewhere in this letter. The Archbishop chose an admirable messenger
in Walls, to send to me; yet I think him fitter for a messenger than
anything.--The D---- she has! I did not observe her looks. Will she rot
out of modesty with Lady Giffard? I pity poor Jenny(18)--but her husband
is a dunce, and with respect to him she loses little by her deafness.
I believe, Madam Stella, in your accounts you mistook one liquor for
another, and it was an hundred and forty quarts of wine, and thirty-two
of water.--This is all written in the morning before I go to the
Secretary, as I am now doing. I have answered your letter a little
shorter than ordinary; but I have a mind it should go to-day, and I will
give you my journal at night in my next; for I'm so afraid of
another letter before this goes: I will never have two together again
unanswered.--What care I for Dr. Tisdall and Dr. Raymond, or how many
children they have! I wish they had a hundred apiece.--Lord Treasurer
promises me to answer the bishops' letter to-morrow, and show it me; and
I believe it will confirm all I said, and mortify those that threw the
merit on the Duke of Ormond; for I have made him jealous of it; and
t'other day, talking of the matter, he said, "I am your witness, you got
it for them before the Duke was Lord Lieutenant." My humble service to
Mrs. Walls, Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine. Farewell, etc.

What do you do when you see any literal mistakes in my letters? how
do you set them right? for I never read them over to correct them.
Farewell, again.

Pray send this note to Mrs. Brent, to get the money when Parvisol comes
to town, or she can send to him.




LETTER 31.

LONDON, Sept. 25, 1711.

I dined in the City to-day, and at my return I put my 30th into the
post-office; and when I got home I found for me one of the noblest
letters I ever read: it was from ----, three sides and a half in folio,
on a large sheet of paper; the two first pages made up of satire upon
London, and crowds and hurry, stolen from some of his own schoolboy's
exercises: the side and a half remaining is spent in desiring me to
recommend Mrs. South, your Commissioner's widow,(1) to my Lord Treasurer
for a pension. He is the prettiest, discreetest fellow that ever my eyes
beheld, or that ever dipped pen into ink. I know not what to say to him.
A pox on him, I have too many such customers on this side already. I
think I will send him word that I never saw my Lord Treasurer in my
life: I am sure I industriously avoided the name of any great person
when I saw him, for fear of his reporting it in Ireland. And this
recommendation must be a secret too, for fear the Duke of Bolton(2)
should know it, and think it was too mean. I never read so d----d a
letter in my life: a little would make me send it over to you.--I must
send you a pattern, the first place I cast my eyes on, I will not pick
and choose. IN THIS PLACE (meaning the Exchange in London), WHICH IS THE
COMPENDIUM OF OLD TROYNOVANT, AS THAT IS OF THE WHOLE BUSY WORLD, I GOT
SUCH A SURFEIT, THAT I GREW SICK OF MANKIND, AND RESOLVED FOR EVER AFTER
TO BURY MYSELF IN THE SHADY RETREAT OF -----. You must know that London
has been called by some Troynovant, or New Troy. Will you have any
more? Yes, one little bit for Stella, because she'll be fond of it. This
wondrous theatre (meaning London) was no more to me than a desert, and
I should less complain of solitude in a Connaught shipwreck, or even the
great bog of Allen. A little scrap for Mrs. Marget,(3) and then I have
done. THEIR ROYAL FANUM, WHEREIN THE IDOL PECUNIA IS DAILY WORSHIPPED,
SEEMED TO ME TO BE JUST LIKE A HIVE OF BEES WORKING AND LABOURING UNDER
HUGE WEIGHTS OF CARES. Fanum is a temple, but he means the Exchange; and
Pecunia is money: so now Mrs. Marget will understand her part. One more
paragraph, and I-- Well, come, don't be in such a rage, you shall have
no more. Pray, Stella, be satisfied; 'tis very pretty: and that I must
be acquainted with such a dog as this!--Our peace goes on fast. Prior
was with the Secretary two hours this morning: I was there a little
after he went away, and was told it. I believe he will soon be
despatched again to France; and I will put somebody to write an account
of his second journey: I hope you have seen the other. This latter has
taken up my time with storming at it.

26. Bernage has been with me these two days; yesterday I sent for him
to let him know that Dr. Arbuthnot is putting in strongly to have his
brother made a captain over Bernage's(4) head. Arbuthnot's brother is
but an ensign, but the Doctor has great power with the Queen: yet he
told me he would not do anything hard to a gentleman who is my friend;
and I have engaged the Secretary and his Colonel(5) for him. To-day he
told me very melancholy, that the other had written from Windsor (where
he went to solicit) that he has got the company; and Bernage is full of
the spleen. I made the Secretary write yesterday a letter to the Colonel
in Bernage's behalf. I hope it will do yet; and I have writte