ose; but he would
send a servant to order a plate or two: yet this man has ten thousand
pounds a year in land, and is a Lord of the Treasury, and is not
covetous neither, but runs out merely by slattering(19) and negligence.
The worst dinner I ever saw at the Dean's was better: but so it is with
abundance of people here. I called at night at Mr. Harley's, who begins
to walk in his room with a stick, but is mighty weak.--See how much I
have lost with that ugly grease.(20) 'Tis your fault, pray; and I'll go
to bed.

April 1. The Duke of Buckingham's house fell down last night with an
earthquake, and is half swallowed up; won't you go and see it?--An April
fool, an April fool, oh ho, young women. Well, don't be angry. I will
make you an April fool no more till the next time; we had no sport here,
because it is Sunday, and Easter Sunday. I dined with the Secretary, who
seemed terribly down and melancholy, which Mr. Prior and Lewis observed
as well as I: perhaps something is gone wrong; perhaps there is nothing
in it. God bless my own dearest MD, and all is well.

2. We have such windy weather, 'tis troublesome walking, yet all the
rabble have got into our Park these Easter holidays. I am plagued with
one Richardson, an Irish parson, and his project of printing Irish
Bibles, etc., to make you Christians in that country: I befriend him
what I can, on account of the Archbishop and Bishop of Clogher.--But
what business have I to meddle, etc. Do not you remember that, sirrah
Stella? what was that about, when you thought I was meddling with
something that was not my business? O, faith, you are an impudent slut,
I remember your doings, I'll never forget you as long as I live. Lewis
and I dined together at his lodgings. But where's the answer to this
letter of MD's? O, faith, Presto, you must think of that. Time enough,
says saucy Presto.

3. I was this morning to see Mrs. Barton: I love her better than anybody
here, and see her seldomer. Why, really now, so it often happens in the
world, that where one loves a body best--pshah, pshah, you are so silly
with your moral observations. Well, but she told me a very good story.
An old gentlewoman died here two months ago, and left in her will, to
have eight men and eight maids bearers, who should have two guineas
apiece, ten guineas to the parson for a sermon, and two guineas to the
clerk. But bearers, parson, and clerk must be all true virgins; and
not to be admitted till they took their oaths of virginity: so the
poor woman still lies unburied, and so must do till the general
resurrection.--I called at Mr. Secretary's, to see what the D---- ailed
him on Sunday. I made him a very proper speech; told him I observed
he was much out of temper; that I did not expect he would tell me the
cause, but would be glad to see he was in better; and one thing I warned
him of, never to appear cold to me, for I would not be treated like a
schoolboy; that I had felt too much of that in my life already (meaning
from Sir William Temple); that I expected every great Minister who
honoured me with his acquaintance, if he heard or saw anything to my
disadvantage, would let me know it in plain words, and not put me in
pain to guess by the change or coldness of his countenance or behaviour;
for it was what I would hardly bear from a crowned head, and I thought
no subject's favour was worth it; and that I designed to let my Lord
Keeper(21) and Mr. Harley know the same thing, that they might use me
accordingly. He took all right; said I had reason; vowed nothing ailed
him but sitting up whole nights at business, and one night at drinking;
would have had me dine with him and Mrs. Masham's brother, to make up
matters; but I would not. I don't know, but I would not. But indeed I
was engaged with my old friend Rollinson;(22) you never heard of him
before.

4. I sometimes look a line or two back, and see plaguy mistakes of the
pen; how do you get over them? You are puzzled sometimes. Why, I think
what I said to Mr. Secretary was right. Don't you remember how I used to
be in pain when Sir William Temple would look cold and out of humour
for three or four days, and I used to suspect a hundred reasons? I have
plucked up my spirit since then, faith; he spoilt a fine gentleman. I
dined with my neighbour Vanhomrigh, and MD, poor MD, at home on a loin
of mutton and half a pint of wine, and the mutton was raw, poor Stella
could not eat, poor dear rogue, and Dingley was so vexed; but we will
dine at Stoyte's to-morrow. Mr. Harley promised to see me in a day or
two, so I called this evening; but his son and others were abroad, and
he asleep, so I came away, and found out Mrs. Vedeau. She drew out a
letter from Dingley, and said she would get a friend to receive the
money. I told her I would employ Mr. Tooke in it henceforward. Her
husband bought a lieutenancy of foot, and is gone to Portugal. He sold
his share of the shop to his brother, and put out the money to maintain
her, all but what bought the commission. She lodges within two doors
of her brother. She told me it made her very melancholy to change her
manner of life thus, but 