ined; for Lord Bolingbroke tells me this morning that four
provinces of Holland(8) have complied with the Queen, and we expect the
rest will do so immediately. Nite MD.

22. Lord Keeper promised me yesterday the first convenient living to
poor Mr. Gery,(9) who is married, and wants some addition to what he
has. He is a very worthy creature. I had a letter some weeks ago from
Elwick,(10) who married Betty Gery. It seems the poor woman died some
time last summer. Elwick grows rich, and purchases lands. I dined with
Lord Treasurer to-day, who has engaged me to come again to-morrow. I
gave Lord Bolingbroke a poem of Parnell's.(11) I made Parnell insert
some compliments in it to his lordship. He is extremely pleased with
it, and read some parts of it to-day to Lord Treasurer, who liked it
as much. And indeed he outdoes all our poets here a bar's length. Lord
Bolingbroke has ordered me to bring him to dinner on Christmas Day, and
I made Lord Treasurer promise to see him; and it may one day do Parnell
a kindness. You know Parnell. I believe I have told you of that poem.
Nite, deel MD.

23. This morning I presented one Diaper,(12) a poet, to Lord
Bolingbroke, with a new poem, which is a very good one; and I am to give
him a sum of money from my lord; and I have contrived to make a parson
of him, for he is half one already, being in deacon's orders, and serves
a small cure in the country; but has a sword at his a--- here in town.
'Tis a poor little short wretch, but will do best in a gown, and we
will make Lord Keeper give him a living. Lord Bolingbroke writ to
Lord Treasurer to excuse me to-day; so I dined with the former, and
Monteleon, the Spanish Ambassador, who made me many compliments. I
stayed till nine, and now it is past ten, and my man has locked me up,
and I have just called to mind that I shall be in disgrace with
Tom Leigh.(13) That coxcomb had got into acquaintance with one
Eckershall,(14) Clerk of the Kitchen to the Queen, who was civil to him
at Windsor on my account; for I had done some service to Eckershall.
Leigh teases me to pass an evening at his lodgings with Eckershall. I
put it off several times, but was forced at last to promise I would come
to-night; and it never was in my head till I was locked up, and I have
called and called, but my man is gone to bed; so I will write an excuse
to-morrow. I detest that Tom Leigh, and am as formal to him as I can
when I happen to meet him in the Park. The rogue frets me, if he knew
it. He asked me why I did not wait on the Bishop of Dromore.(15) I
answered I had not the honour to be acquainted with him, and would not
presume, etc. He takes me seriously, and says the Bishop is no proud
man, etc. He tells me of a judge in Ireland that has done ill things.
I ask why he is not out? Says he, "I think the bishops, and you, and I,
and the rest of the clergy, should meet and consult about it." I beg his
pardon, and say, "I cannot be serviceable that way." He answers, "Yes,
everybody may help something."--Don't you see how curiously he contrives
to vex me; for the dog knows that with half a word I could do more than
all of them together. But he only does it from the pride and envy of
his own heart, and not out of a humorous design of teasing. He is one
of those that would rather a service should not be done, than done by a
private man, and of his own country. You take all this, don't you? Nite
dee sollahs, I'll go seep a dozey.

24. I dined to-day with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in order to
look over some of my papers; but nothing was done. I have been also
mediating between the Hamilton family and Lord Abercorn, to have them
compound with him; and I believe they will do it. Lord Selkirk,(16) the
late Duke's brother, is to be in town, in order to go to France, to
make the demands; and the Ministry are of opinion they will get some
satisfaction, and they empowered me to advise the Hamilton side to agree
with Abercorn, who asks a fourth part, and will go to France and spoil
all if they won't yield it. Nite sollahs.

25. All melly Titmasses--melly Titmasses--I said it first--I wish it a
souzand (times) zoth with halt(17) and soul.(18) I carried Parnell to
dine at Lord Bolingbroke's, and he behaved himself very well; and Lord
Bolingbroke is mightily pleased with him. I was at St. James's Chapel by
eight this morning; and church and sacrament were done by ten. The Queen
has the gout in her hand, and did not come to church today; and I stayed
so long in my chamber that I missed going to Court. Did I tell you that
the Queen designs to have a Drawing-room and company every day? Nite dee
logues.

26. I was to wish the Duke of Ormond a happy Christmas, and give half
a crown to his porter. It will cost me a dozen half-crowns among such
fellows. I dined with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for being absent
three days. Mighty kind, with a p--; less of civility, and more of his
interest! We hear Maccartney is gone over to Ireland. Was it not comical
for a gentleman to be set upon by highwaymen, and to tell them he was
Maccartney? Upon which they brought him to a justice of peace, in hopes
of t