atherine. Tell Goody Stoyte she owes me a world of dinners, and I will
shortly come over and demand them.--Did I tell you of the Archbishop of
Dublin's last letter? He had been saying, in several of his former, that
he would shortly write to me something about myself; and it looked as if
he intended something for me: at last out it comes, and consists of two
parts. First, he advises me to strike in for some preferment now I have
friends; and secondly, he advises me, since I have parts, and learning,
and a happy pen, to think of some new subject in divinity not handled
by others, which I should manage better than anybody. A rare spark this,
with a pox! but I shall answer him as rarely. Methinks he should have
invited me over, and given me some hopes or promises. But hang him! and
so good-night, etc.

13. It rained most furiously all this morning till about twelve, and
sometimes thundered; I trembled for my shillings, but it cleared up,
and I made a shift to get a walk in the Park, and then went with the
Secretary to dine with Lord Treasurer. Upon Thursdays there is always
a select company: we had the Duke of Shrewsbury, Lord Rivers, the two
Secretaries, Mr. Granville, and Mr. Prior. Half of them went to Council
at six; but Rivers, Granville, Prior, and I, stayed till eight. Prior
was often affecting to be angry at the account of his journey to Paris;
and indeed the two last pages, which the printer got somebody to add,(4)
are so romantic, they spoil all the rest. Dilly Ashe pretended to me
that he was only going to Oxford and Cambridge for a fortnight, and then
would come back. I could not see him as I appointed t'other day; but
some of his friends tell me he took leave of them as going to Ireland;
and so they say at his lodging. I believe the rogue was ashamed to tell
me so, because I advised him to stay the winter, and he said he would.
I find he had got into a good set of scrub acquaintance, and I thought
passed his time very merrily; but I suppose he languished after
Balderig, and the claret of Dublin; and, after all, I think he is in
the right; for he can eat, drink, and converse better there than here.
Bernage was with me this morning: he calls now and then; he is in
terrible fear of a peace. He said he never had his health so well as in
Portugal. He is a favourite of his Colonel.

14. I was mortified enough to-day, not knowing where in the world to
dine, the town is so empty. I met H. Coote,(5) and thought he would
invite me, but he did not: Sir John Stanley did not come into my head;
so I took up with Mrs. Van, and dined with her and her damned landlady,
who, I believe, by her eyebrows, is a bawd. This evening I met Addison
and Pastoral Philips in the Park, and supped with them at Addison's
lodgings: we were very good company, and I yet know no man half so
agreeable to me as he is. I sat with them till twelve, so you may think
it is late, young women; however, I would have some little conversation
with MD before your Presto goes to bed, because it makes me sleep, and
dream, and so forth. Faith, this letter goes on slowly enough, sirrahs;
but I cannot write much at a time till you are quite settled after your
journey, you know, and have gone all your visits, and lost your money at
ombre. You never play at chess now, Stella. That puts me in mind of
Dick Tighe; I fancy I told you he used to beat his wife here; and she
deserved it; and he resolves to part with her; and they went to Ireland
in different coaches. O Lord, I said all this before, I am sure. Go to
bed, sirrahs.

Windsor, 15. I made the Secretary stop at Brentford, because we set
out at two this afternoon, and fasting would not agree with me. I only
designed to eat a bit of bread-and-butter; but he would light, and
we ate roast beef like dragons. And he made me treat him and two more
gentlemen; faith, it cost me a guinea. I do not like such jesting, yet
I was mightily pleased with it too. To-night our Society met at the
Secretary's: there were nine of us; and we have chosen a new member, the
Earl of Jersey,(6) whose father died lately. 'Tis past one, and I have
stolen away.

16. I design to stay here this week by myself, about some business that
lies on my hands, and will take up a great deal of time. Dr. Adams,(7)
one of the canons, invited me to-day to dinner. The tables are so full
here on Sunday that it is hard to dine with a few, and Dr. Adams knows
I love to do so; which is very obliging. The Queen saw company in her
bed-chamber; she looks very well, but she sat down. I supped with Lord
Treasurer as usual, and stayed till past one as usual, and with our
usual company, except Lord Keeper, who did not come this time to
Windsor. I hate these suppers mortally, but I seldom eat anything.

17. Lord Treasurer and Mr. Secretary stay here till tomorrow; some
business keeps them, and I am sorry for it, for they hinder me a day.
Mr. Lewis and I were going to dine soberly with a little Court friend
at one. But Lord Harley and Lord Dupplin kept me by force, and said we
should dine at Lord Treasurer's, who intended to go at four to London. I
stayed like a fool, and wen