ephen says, "She might
and probably did regard his friendship as a full equivalent for the
sacrifice.... Is it better to be the most intimate friend of a man of
genius or the wife of a commonplace Tisdall?" Whatever we may surmise,
there is nothing to prove that she was disappointed. She was the one
star which brightened Swift's storm-tossed course; it is well that she
was spared seeing the wreck at the end.


The Journal to Stella is interesting from many points of view: for its
bearing upon Swift's relations with Stella and upon his own character;
for the light which it throws upon the history of the time and upon
prominent men of the day; and for the illustrations it contains of the
social life of people of various classes in London and elsewhere. The
fact that it was written without any thought of publication is one of
its greatest attractions. Swift jotted down his opinions, his hopes, his
disappointments, without thought of their being seen by anybody but his
correspondents. The letters are transparently natural. It has been said
more than once that the Journal, by the nature of the case, contains
no full-length portraits, and hardly any sketches. Swift mentions the
people he met, but rarely stops to draw a picture of them. But though
this is true, the casual remarks which he makes often give a vivid
impression of what he thought of the person of whom he is speaking, and
in many cases those few words form a chief part of our general estimate
of the man. There are but few people of note at the time who are not
mentioned in these pages. We see Queen Anne holding a Drawing-room in
her bedroom: "she looked at us round with her fan in her mouth, and once
a minute said about three words to some that were nearest her." We see
Harley, afterwards the Earl of Oxford, "a pure trifler," who was always
putting off important business; Bolingbroke, "a thorough rake"; the
prudent Lord Dartmouth, the other Secretary of State, from whom Swift
could never "work out a dinner." There is Marlborough, "covetous as
Hell, and ambitious as the prince of it," yet a great general and unduly
pressed by the Tories; and the volatile Earl of Peterborough, "above
fifty, and as active as one of five-and-twenty"--"the ramblingest lying
rogue on earth." We meet poor Congreve, nearly blind, and in fear
of losing his commissionership; the kindly Arbuthnot, the Queen's
physician; Addison, whom Swift met more and more rarely, busy with the
preparation and production of Cato; Steele, careless as ever, neglecting
important appointments, and "governed by his wife most abominably";
Prior, poet and diplomatist, with a "lean carcass"; and young
Berkeley of Trinity College, Dublin, "a very ingenious man and great
philosopher," whom Swift determined to favour as much as he could. Mrs.
Masham, the Duchess of Somerset, the Duchess of Shrewsbury, the Duchess
of Hamilton, Lady Betty Germaine, and many other ladies appear with more
or less distinctness; besides a host of people of less note, of whom we
often know little but what Swift tells us.

Swift throws much light, too, on the daily life of his time. The bellman
on his nightly rounds, calling "Paaast twelvvve o'clock"; the dinner
at three, or at the latest, four; the meetings at coffee-houses; the
book-sales; the visit to the London sights--the lions at the Tower,
Bedlam, the tombs in Westminster Abbey, and the puppet-show; the
terrible Mohocks, of whom Swift stood in so much fear; the polite
"howdees" sent to friends by footmen; these and more are all described
in the Journal. We read of curious habits and practices of fashionable
ladies; of the snuff used by Mrs. Dingley and others; of the
jokes--"bites," puns, and the like--indulged in by polite persons.
When Swift lodged at Chelsea, he reached London either by boat, or
by coach,--which was sometimes full when he wanted it,--or by walking
across the "Five Fields," not without fear of robbers at night. The
going to or from Ireland was a serious matter; after the long journey
by road came the voyage (weather permitting) of some fifteen hours,
with the risk of being seized or pursued by French privateers; and when
Ireland was reached the roads were of the worst. We have glimpses of
fashionable society in Dublin, of the quiet life at Laracor and Trim,
and of the drinking of the waters at Wexford, where visitors had to put
up with primitive arrangements: "Mrs. Dingley never saw such a place in
her life."

Swift's own characteristics come out in the clearest manner in the
Journal, which gives all his hopes and fears during three busy years. He
was pleased to find on his arrival in London how great a value was set
on his friendship by both political parties: "The Whigs were ravished to
see me, and would lay hold on me as a twig while they are drowning;"
but Godolphin's coldness enraged him, so that he was "almost vowing
vengeance." Next day he talked treason heartily against the Whigs, their
baseness and ingratitude, and went home full of schemes of revenge. "The
Tories drily tell me I may make my fortune, if I please; but I do not
understand them, or rather, I DO under