aking? I lost my handkerchief in the
Mall to-night with Lord Radnor; but I made him walk with me to find it,
and find it I did not. Tisdall(26) (that lodges with me) and I have had
no conversation, nor do we pull off our hats in the streets. There is a
cousin of his (I suppose,) a young parson, that lodges in the house
too; a handsome, genteel fellow. Dick Tighe(27) and his wife lodged over
against us; and he has been seen, out of our upper windows, beating her
two or three times: they are both gone to Ireland, but not together; and
he solemnly vows never to live with her. Neighbours do not stick to
say that she has a tongue: in short, I am told she is the most urging,
provoking devil that ever was born; and he a hot, whiffling(28) puppy,
very apt to resent. I'll keep this bottom till to-morrow: I'm sleepy.

25. I was with the Secretary this morning, who was in a mighty hurry,
and went to Windsor in a chariot with Lord Keeper; so I was not invited,
and am forced to stay at home, but not at all against my will; for
I could have gone, and would not. I dined in the City with one of my
printers, for whom I got the Gazette, and am come home early; and have
nothing to say to you more, but finish this letter, and not send it by
the bellman. Days grow short, and the weather grows bad, and the town
is splenetic, and things are so oddly contrived that I cannot be absent;
otherwise I would go for a few days to Oxford, as I promised.--They say
it is certain that Prior has been in France,(29) nobody doubts it: I had
not time to ask the Secretary, he was in such haste. Well, I will take
my leave of dearest MD for a while; for I must begin my next letter
to-night: consider that, young women; and pray be merry, and good girls,
and love Presto. There is now but one business the Ministry want me for,
and when that is done, I will take my leave of them. I never got a
penny from them, nor expect it. In my opinion, some things stand very
ticklish; I dare say nothing at this distance. Farewell, dear sirrahs,
dearest lives: there is peace and quiet with MD, and nowhere else. They
have not leisure here to think of small things, which may ruin them; and
I have been forward enough. Farewell again, dearest rogues; I am never
happy but when I write or think of MD. I have enough of Courts and
Ministries, and wish I were at Laracor; and if I could with honour come
away this moment, I would. Bernage(30) came to see me to-day; he is just
landed from Portugal, and come to raise recruits; he looks very well,
and seems pleased with his station and manner of life. He never saw
London nor England before; he is ravished with Kent, which was his first
prospect when he landed. Farewell again, etc. etc.




LETTER 29.

LONDON, Aug. 25, 1711.

I have got a pretty small gilt sheet of paper, to write to MD. I have
this moment sent my 28th by Patrick, who tells me he has put it in the
post-office; 'tis directed to your lodgings: if it wants more particular
direction, you must set me right. It is now a solar month and two days
since the date of your last, N.18; and I reckon you are now quiet
at home, and thinking to begin your 19th, which will be full of your
quarrel between the two Houses, all which I know already. Where shall
I dine to-morrow? can you tell? Mrs. Vanhomrigh boards now, and cannot
invite one; and there I used to dine when I was at a loss: and all my
friends are gone out of town, and your town is now at the fullest, with
your Parliament and Convocation. But let me alone, sirrahs; for Presto
is going to be very busy; not Presto, but the other I.

26. People have so left the town that I am at a loss for a dinner. It is
a long time since I have been at London upon a Sunday; and the Ministers
are all at Windsor. It cost me eighteenpence in coach-hire before I
could find a place to dine in. I went to Frankland's,(1) and he was
abroad, and the drab his wife looked out at window, and bowed to
me without inviting me up: so I dined with Mr. Coote,(2) my Lord
Mountrath's brother; my lord is with you in Ireland. This morning at
five my Lord Jersey(3) died of the gout in his stomach, or apoplexy,
or both: he was abroad yesterday, and his death was sudden. He was
Chamberlain to King William, and a great favourite, turned out by the
Queen as a Tory, and stood now fair to be Privy Seal; and by his death
will, I suppose, make that matter easier, which has been a very stubborn
business at Court, as I have been informed. I never remember so many
people of quality to have died in so short a time.

27. I went to-day into the City, to thank Stratford for my books,
and dine with him, and settle my affairs of my money in the Bank, and
receive a bill for Mrs. Wesley for some things I am to buy for her; and
the d---- a one of all these could I do. The merchants were all out of
town, and I was forced to go to a little hedge place for my dinner. May
my enemies live here in summer! and yet I am so unlucky that I cannot
possibly be out of the way at this juncture. People leave the town so
late in summer, and return so late in winter, that they have almost
inverted the seasons. It is