 to the Green Cloth to-day, that he might not
be behindhand with Colonel Godfrey, who is a Whig. I was engaged to
the Mayor's feast with Mr. Masham; but waiting to take leave of Lord
Treasurer, I came too late, and so returned sneaking to the Green Cloth,
and did not see my Lord Treasurer neither; but was resolved not to lose
two dinners for him. I took leave to-day of my friend and solicitor
Lord Rivers, who is commanded by the Queen to set out for Hanover on
Thursday. The Secretary does not go to town till to-morrow; he and I,
and two friends more, drank a sober bottle of wine here at home, and
parted at twelve; he goes by seven to-morrow morning, so I shall not see
him. I have power over his cellar in his absence, and make little use
of it. Lord Dartmouth and my friend Lewis stay here this week; but I can
never work out a dinner from Dartmouth. Masham has promised to provide
for me: I squired his lady out of her chaise to-day, and must visit her
in a day or two. So you have had a long fit of the finest weather in the
world; but I am every day in pain that it will go off. I have done no
business to-day; I am very idle.

2. My friend Lewis and I, to avoid over much eating and great tables,
dined with honest Jemmy Eckershall,(11) Clerk of the Kitchen, now in
waiting, and I bespoke my dinner: but the cur had your acquaintance
Lovet, the gentleman porter, to be our company. Lovet, towards the end
of dinner, after twenty wrigglings, said he had the honour to see me
formerly at Moor Park, and thought he remembered my face. I said I
thought I remembered him, and was glad to see him, etc., and I escaped
for that much, for he was very pert. It has rained all this day, and I
doubt our good weather is gone. I have been very idle this afternoon,
playing at twelvepenny picquet with Lewis: I won seven shillings, which
is the only money I won this year: I have not played above four times,
and I think always at Windsor. Cards are very dear: there is a duty on
them of sixpence a pack, which spoils small gamesters.

3. Mr. Masham sent this morning to desire I would ride out with him, the
weather growing again very fine. I was very busy, and sent my excuses;
but desired he would provide me a dinner. I dined with him, his lady,
and her sister, Mrs. Hill, who invites us to-morrow to dine with her,
and we are to ride out in the morning. I sat with Lady Oglethorpe till
eight this evening, then was going home to write; looked about for the
woman that keeps the key of the house: she told me Patrick had it.
I cooled my heels in the cloisters till nine, then went in to the
music-meeting, where I had been often desired to go; but was weary
in half an hour of their fine stuff, and stole out so privately that
everybody saw me; and cooled my heels in the cloisters again till after
ten: then came in Patrick. I went up, shut the chamber door, and gave
him two or three swinging cuffs on the ear, and I have strained the
thumb of my left hand with pulling him, which I did not feel until he
was gone. He was plaguily afraid and humbled.

4. It was the finest day in the world, and we got out before eleven, a
noble caravan of us. The Duchess of Shrewsbury in her own chaise
with one horse, and Miss Touchet(12) with her, Mrs. Masham and Mrs.
Scarborow, one of the dressers, in one of the Queen's chaises; Miss
Forester and Miss Scarborow,(13) two maids of honour, and Mrs. Hill
on horseback. The Duke of Shrewsbury, Mr. Masham, George Fielding,(14)
Arbuthnot, and I, on horseback too. Mrs. Hill's horse was hired for Miss
Scarborow, but she took it in civility; her own horse was galled and
could not be rid, but kicked and winced: the hired horse was not worth
eighteenpence. I borrowed coat, boots, and horse, and in short we had
all the difficulties, and more than we used to have in making a party
from Trim to Longfield's.(15) My coat was light camlet, faced with red
velvet, and silver buttons. We rode in the great park and the forest
about a dozen miles, and the Duchess and I had much conversation: we got
home by two, and Mr. Masham, his lady, Arbuthnot and I, dined with
Mrs. Hill. Arbuthnot made us all melancholy, by some symptoms of bloody
u---e: he expects a cruel fit of the stone in twelve hours; he says
he is never mistaken, and he appears like a man that was to be racked
to-morrow. I cannot but hope it will not be so bad; he is a perfectly
honest man, and one I have much obligation to. It rained a little this
afternoon, and grew fair again. Lady Oglethorpe sent to speak to me, and
it was to let me know that Lady Rochester(16) desires she and I may be
better acquainted. 'Tis a little too late; for I am not now in love with
Lady Rochester: they shame me out of her, because she is old. Arbuthnot
says he hopes my strained thumb is not the gout; for he has often found
people so mistaken. I do not remember the particular thing that gave it
me, only I had it just after beating Patrick, and now it is better; so I
believe he is mistaken.

5. The Duchess of Shrewsbury sent to invite me to dinner; but I was
abroad last night when her servant came, and this morning I sent my
