rley, Lord Pembroke, etc.; and I have seen her without one Tory. The
Queen made me a curtsey, and said, in a sort of familiar way to Presto,
"How does MD?" I considered she was a Queen, and so excused her.(24) I
do not miss the Whigs at Court; but have as many acquaintance there as
formerly.

8. Here's ado and a clutter! I must now answer MD's fifth; but first
you must know I dined at the Portugal Envoy's(25) to-day, with Addison,
Vanbrugh, Admiral Wager,(26) Sir Richard Temple,(27) Methuen,(28) etc. I
was weary of their company, and stole away at five, and came home like a
good boy, and studied till ten, and had a fire, O ho! and now am in bed.
I have no fireplace in my bed-chamber; but 'tis very warm weather when
one's in bed. Your fine cap,(29) Madam Dingley, is too little, and too
hot: I will have that fur taken off; I wish it were far enough; and my
old velvet cap is good for nothing. Is it velvet under the fur? I was
feeling, but cannot find: if it be, 'twill do without it else I will
face it; but then I must buy new velvet: but may be I may beg a piece.
What shall I do? Well, now to rogue MD's letter. God be thanked for
Stella's eyes mending; and God send it holds; but faith you writ too
much at a time: better write less, or write it at ten times. Yes, faith,
a long letter in a morning from a dear friend is a dear thing. I smoke
a compliment, little mischievous girls, I do so. But who are those WIGGS
that think I am turned Tory? Do you mean Whigs? Which WIGGS and WAT do
you mean? I know nothing of Raymond, and only had one letter from him a
little after I came here.(Pray remember Morgan.) Raymond is indeed
like to have much influence over me in London, and to share much of
my conversation. I shall, no doubt, introduce him to Harley, and Lord
Keeper, and the Secretary of State. The Tatler upon Ithuriel's spear(30)
is not mine, madam. What a puzzle there is betwixt you and your
judgment! In general you may be sometimes sure of things, as that about
STYLE,(31) because it is what I have frequently spoken of; but guessing
is mine a----, and I defy mankind, if I please. Why, I writ a pamphlet
when I was last in London, that you and a thousand have seen, and never
guessed it to be mine. Could you have guessed the "Shower in Town" to be
mine? How chance you did not see that before your last letter went? but
I suppose you in Ireland did not think it worth mentioning. Nor am I
suspected for the lampoon; only Harley said he smoked me; (have I told
you so before?) and some others knew it. 'Tis called "The Rod of Sid
Hamet." And I have written several other things that I hear commended,
and nobody suspects me for them; nor you shall not know till I see you
again. What do you mean, "That boards near me, that I dine with now and
then?" I know no such person: I do not dine with boarders. What the pox!
You know whom I have dined with every day since I left you, better than
I do. What do you mean, sirrah? Slids, my ailment has been over these
two months almost. Impudence, if you vex me, I will give ten shillings
a week for my lodging; for I am almost st--k out of this with the sink,
and it helps me to verses in my "Shower."(32) Well, Madam Dingley, what
say you to the world to come? What ballad? Why go look, it was not good
for much: have patience till I come back: patience is a gay thing as,
etc. I hear nothing of Lord Mountjoy's coming for Ireland. When
is Stella's birthday? in March? Lord bless me, my turn at Christ
Church;(33) it is so natural to hear you write about that, I believe
you have done it a hundred times; it is as fresh in my mind, the verger
coming to you; and why to you? Would he have you preach for me? O, pox
on your spelling of Latin, Johnsonibus atque, that is the way. How did
the Dean get that name by the end? 'Twas you betrayed me: not I, faith;
I'll not break his head. Your mother is still in the country, I suppose;
for she promised to see me when she came to town. I writ to her four
days ago, to desire her to break it to Lady Giffard, to put some money
for you in the Bank, which was then fallen thirty per cent. Would to God
mine had been here, I should have gained one hundred pounds, and got
as good interest as in Ireland, and much securer. I would fain have
borrowed three hundred pounds; but money is so scarce here, there is no
borrowing, by this fall of stocks. 'Tis rising now, and I knew it would:
it fell from one hundred and twenty-nine to ninety-six. I have not heard
since from your mother. Do you think I would be so unkind not to see
her, that you desire me in a style so melancholy? Mrs. Raymond,(34)
you say, is with child: I am sorry for it; and so is, I believe, her
husband. Mr. Harley speaks all the kind things to me in the world; and,
I believe, would serve me, if I were to stay here; but I reckon in time
the Duke of Ormond may give me some addition to Laracor. Why should
the Whigs think I came to England to leave them? Sure my journey was no
secret. I protest sincerely, I did all I could to hinder it, as the Dean
can tell you, although now I do not repent it. But who the Devil cares
what they think? A