 with
matter for above five or six lines in a day. Did you smoke in my last
how I told you the very day and the place you were playing at ombre? But
I interlined and altered a little, after I had received a letter from
Mr. Manley, that said you were at it in his house, while he was writing
to me; but without his help I guessed within one day. Your town is
certainly much more sociable than ours. I have not seen your mother yet,
etc.

12. I dined to-day with Dr. Garth and Mr. Addison, at the Devil
Tavern(6) by Temple Bar, and Garth treated; and 'tis well I dine every
day, else I should be longer making out my letters: for we are yet in a
very dull state, only inquiring every day after new elections, where
the Tories carry it among the new members six to one. Mr. Addison's
election(7) has passed easy and undisputed; and I believe if he had a
mind to be chosen king, he would hardly be refused. An odd accident has
happened at Colchester: one Captain Lavallin,(8) coming from Flanders or
Spain, found his wife with child by a clerk of Doctors' Commons, whose
trade, you know, it is to prevent fornications: and this clerk was the
very same fellow that made the discovery of Dyot's(9) counterfeiting the
stamp-paper. Lavallin has been this fortnight hunting after the clerk,
to kill him; but the fellow was constantly employed at the Treasury,
about the discovery he made: the wife had made a shift to patch up the
business, alleging that the clerk had told her her husband was dead
and other excuses; but t'other day somebody told Lavallin his wife had
intrigues before he married her: upon which he goes down in a rage,
shoots his wife through the head, then falls on his sword; and, to make
the matter sure, at the same time discharges a pistol through his own
head, and died on the spot, his wife surviving him about two hours, but
in what circumstances of mind and body is terrible to imagine. I have
finished my poem on the "Shower," all but the beginning; and am going on
with my Tatler. They have fixed about fifty things on me since I came: I
have printed but three.(10) One advantage I get by writing to you daily,
or rather you get, is, that I shall remember not to write the same
things twice; and yet, I fear, I have done it often already: but I will
mind and confine myself to the accidents of the day; and so get you gone
to ombre, and be good girls, and save your money, and be rich against
Presto comes, and write to me now and then: I am thinking it would be a
pretty thing to hear sometimes from saucy MD; but do not hurt your eyes,
Stella, I charge you.

13. O Lord, here is but a trifle of my letter written yet; what shall
Presto do for prattle-prattle, to entertain MD? The talk now grows
fresher of the Duke of Ormond for Ireland; though Mr. Addison says he
hears it will be in commission, and Lord Galway(11) one. These letters
of mine are a sort of journal, where matters open by degrees; and, as I
tell true or false, you will find by the event whether my intelligence
be good; but I do not care twopence whether it be or no.--At night.
To-day I was all about St. Paul's, and up at the top like a fool, with
Sir Andrew Fountaine and two more; and spent seven shillings for my
dinner like a puppy: this is the second time he has served me so; but
I will never do it again, though all mankind should persuade me,
unconsidering puppies! There is a young fellow here in town we are
all fond of, and about a year or two come from the University, one
Harrison,(12) a little pretty fellow, with a great deal of wit, good
sense, and good nature; has written some mighty pretty things; that in
your 6th Miscellanea,(13) about the Sprig of an Orange, is his: he
has nothing to live on but being governor to one of the Duke of
Queensberry's(14) sons for forty pounds a year. The fine fellows are
always inviting him to the tavern, and make him pay his club. Henley(15)
is a great crony of his: they are often at the tavern at six or seven
shillings reckoning, and he always makes the poor lad pay his full
share. A colonel and a lord were at him and me the same way to-night: I
absolutely refused, and made Harrison lag behind, and persuaded him not
to go to them. I tell you this, because I find all rich fellows have
that humour of using all people without any consideration of their
fortunes; but I will see them rot before they shall serve me so. Lord
Halifax is always teasing me to go down to his country house, which will
cost me a guinea to his servants, and twelve shillings coach-hire; and
he shall be hanged first. Is not this a plaguy silly story? But I am
vexed at the heart; for I love the young fellow, and am resolved to stir
up people to do something for him: he is a Whig, and I will put him upon
some of my cast Whigs; for I have done with them; and they have, I hope,
done with this kingdom for our time. They were sure of the four members
for London above all places, and they have lost three in the four.(16)
Sir Richard Onslow,(17) we hear, has lost for Surrey; and they are
overthrown in most places. Lookee, gentlewomen, if I write long letters,
I must write you news and 