ecretary tells me he has put a cheat on me; for Lord
Peterborow sent him twelve dozen flasks of burgundy, on condition that I
should have my share; but he never was quiet till they were all gone,
so I reckon he owes me thirty-six pounds. Lord Peterborow is now got
to Vienna, and I must write to him to-morrow. I begin now to be towards
looking for a letter from some certain ladies of Presto's acquaintance,
that live at St. Mary's,(18) and are called in a certain language, our
little MD. No, stay, I don't expect one these six days, that will be
just three weeks; an't I a reasonable creature? We are plagued here with
an October Club, that is, a set of above a hundred Parliament men of
the country, who drink October beer at home, and meet every evening at
a tavern near the Parliament to consult affairs, and drive things on to
extremes against the Whigs, to call the old Ministry to account, and get
off five or six heads.(19) The Ministry seem not to regard them; yet one
of them in confidence told me that there must be something thought
on, to settle things better. I'll tell you one great State secret: the
Queen, sensible how much she was governed by the late Ministry, runs a
little into t'other extreme, and is jealous in that point, even of
those who got her out of the others' hands. The Ministry is for gentler
measures, and the other Tories for more violent. Lord Rivers, talking
to me the other day, cursed the paper called the Examiner, for speaking
civilly of the Duke of Marlborough; this I happened to talk of to the
Secretary, who blamed the warmth of that lord and some others, and swore
that if their advice were followed they would be blown up in twenty-four
hours. And I have reason to think that they will endeavour to prevail
on the Queen to put her affairs more in the hands of a Ministry than she
does at present; and there are, I believe, two men thought on, one
of them you have often met the name of in my letters. But so much for
politics.

19. This proved a terrible rainy day, which prevented my walk into the
City, and I was only able to run and dine with my neighbour Vanhomrigh,
where Sir Andrew Fountaine dined too, who has just began to sally out,
and has shipped his mother and sister, who were his nurses, back to the
country. This evening was fair, and I walked a little in the Park, till
Prior made me go with him to the Smyrna Coffee-house, where I sat
a while, and saw four or five Irish persons, who are very handsome,
genteel fellows; but I know not their names. I came away at seven, and
got home. Two days ago I writ to Bernage, and told him what I had
done, and directed the letter to Mr. Curry's, to be left with Dingley.
Brigadiers Hill and Masham, brother and husband to Mrs. Masham, the
Queen's favourite, Colonel Disney,(20) and I, have recommended Bernage
to the Duke of Argyle; and Secretary St. John has given the Duke
my memorial; and, besides, Hill tells me, that Bernage's colonel,
Fielding,(21) designs to make him his captain-lieutenant: but I believe
I said this to you before, and in this letter; but I will not look.

20. Morning. It snows terribly again; and 'tis mistaken, for I now want
a little good weather. I bid you good-morrow; and, if it clear up, get
you gone to poor Mrs. Walls, who has had a hard time of it, but is now
pretty well again. I am sorry it is a girl: the poor Archdeacon too, see
how simply he looked when they told him: what did it cost Stella to be
gossip? I'll rise; so, d'ye hear, let me see you at night; and do not
stay late out, and catch cold, sirrahs.--At night. It grew good weather,
and I got a good walk, and dined with Ford upon his Opera-day; but, now
all his wine is gone, I shall dine with him no more. I hope to send
this letter before I hear from MD, methinks there is--something great in
doing so, only I can't express where it lies; and, faith, this shall go
by Saturday, as sure as you're a rogue. Mrs. Edgworth was to set out but
last Monday; so you won't have your box so soon perhaps as this letter;
but Sterne told me since that it is safe at Chester, and that she will
take care of it. I'd give a guinea you had it.

21. Morning. Faith, I hope it will be fair for me to walk into the City;
for I take all occasions of walking.--I should be plaguy busy at Laracor
if I were there now, cutting down willows, planting others, scouring my
canal, and every kind of thing. If Raymond goes over this summer, you
must submit, and make them a visit, that we may have another eel and
trout fishing; and that Stella may ride by, and see Presto in his
morning-gown in the garden, and so go up with Joe to the Hill of Bree,
and round by Scurlock's Town. O Lord, how I remember names! faith,
it gives me short sighs; therefore no more of that, if you love me.
Good-morrow, I will go rise like a gentleman; my pills say I must.--At
night. Lady Kerry sent to desire me to engage some lords about an affair
she has in their house here: I called to see her, but found she
had already engaged every lord I knew, and that there was no great
difficulty in the matter; and it rained like a dog; so I took coach,
for want 