 would be sure to
give no offence even to foreigners (for I hope the reader need not be
told, that I do not in the least intend my own country, in what I say
upon this occasion,) a great number of persons concerned were called up;
and, upon a very slight examination, discovered such a scene of infamy,
that I cannot reflect upon it without some seriousness.  Perjury,
oppression, subornation, fraud, pandarism, and the like infirmities, were
among the most excusable arts they had to mention; and for these I gave,
as it was reasonable, great allowance.  But when some confessed they owed
their greatness and wealth to sodomy, or incest; others, to the
prostituting of their own wives and daughters; others, to the betraying
of their country or their prince; some, to poisoning; more to the
perverting of justice, in order to destroy the innocent, I hope I may be
pardoned, if these discoveries inclined me a little to abate of that
profound veneration, which I am naturally apt to pay to persons of high
rank, who ought to be treated with the utmost respect due to their
sublime dignity, by us their inferiors.

I had often read of some great services done to princes and states, and
desired to see the persons by whom those services were performed.  Upon
inquiry I was told, “that their names were to be found on no record,
except a few of them, whom history has represented as the vilest of
rogues and traitors.”  As to the rest, I had never once heard of them.
They all appeared with dejected looks, and in the meanest habit; most of
them telling me, “they died in poverty and disgrace, and the rest on a
scaffold or a gibbet.”

Among others, there was one person, whose case appeared a little
singular.  He had a youth about eighteen years old standing by his side.
He told me, “he had for many years been commander of a ship; and in the
sea fight at Actium had the good fortune to break through the enemy’s
great line of battle, sink three of their capital ships, and take a
fourth, which was the sole cause of Antony’s flight, and of the victory
that ensued; that the youth standing by him, his only son, was killed in
the action.”  He added, “that upon the confidence of some merit, the war
being at an end, he went to Rome, and solicited at the court of Augustus
to be preferred to a greater ship, whose commander had been killed; but,
without any regard to his pretensions, it was given to a boy who had
never seen the sea, the son of Libertina, who waited on one of the
emperor’s mistresses.  Returning back to his own vessel, he was charged
with neglect of duty, and the ship given to a favourite page of
Publicola, the vice-admiral; whereupon he retired to a poor farm at a
great distance from Rome, and there ended his life.”  I was so curious to
know the truth of this story, that I desired Agrippa might be called, who
was admiral in that fight.  He appeared, and confirmed the whole account:
but with much more advantage to the captain, whose modesty had extenuated
or concealed a great part of his merit.

I was surprised to find corruption grown so high and so quick in that
empire, by the force of luxury so lately introduced; which made me less
wonder at many parallel cases in other countries, where vices of all
kinds have reigned so much longer, and where the whole praise, as well as
pillage, has been engrossed by the chief commander, who perhaps had the
least title to either.

As every person called up made exactly the same appearance he had done in
the world, it gave me melancholy reflections to observe how much the race
of human kind was degenerated among us within these hundred years past;
how the pox, under all its consequences and denominations had altered
every lineament of an English countenance; shortened the size of bodies,
unbraced the nerves, relaxed the sinews and muscles, introduced a sallow
complexion, and rendered the flesh loose and rancid.

I descended so low, as to desire some English yeoman of the old stamp
might be summoned to appear; once so famous for the simplicity of their
manners, diet, and dress; for justice in their dealings; for their true
spirit of liberty; for their valour, and love of their country.  Neither
could I be wholly unmoved, after comparing the living with the dead, when
I considered how all these pure native virtues were prostituted for a
piece of money by their grand-children; who, in selling their votes and
managing at elections, have acquired every vice and corruption that can
possibly be learned in a court.



CHAPTER IX.


The author returns to Maldonada.  Sails to the kingdom of Luggnagg.  The
author confined.  He is sent for to court.  The manner of his admittance.
The king’s great lenity to his subjects.

The day of our departure being come, I took leave of his highness, the
Governor of Glubbdubdrib, and returned with my two companions to
Maldonada, where, after a fortnight’s waiting, a ship was ready to sail
for Luggnagg.  The two gentlemen, and some others, were so generous and
kind as to furnish me with provisions, and see me on board.  I was a
month in this voyage.  We had one violent storm, and were unde