ade of these flints, they likewise cut
their hay, and reap their oats, which there grow naturally in several
fields; the _Yahoos_ draw home the sheaves in carriages, and the servants
tread them in certain covered huts to get out the grain, which is kept in
stores.  They make a rude kind of earthen and wooden vessels, and bake
the former in the sun.

If they can avoid casualties, they die only of old age, and are buried in
the obscurest places that can be found, their friends and relations
expressing neither joy nor grief at their departure; nor does the dying
person discover the least regret that he is leaving the world, any more
than if he were upon returning home from a visit to one of his
neighbours.  I remember my master having once made an appointment with a
friend and his family to come to his house, upon some affair of
importance: on the day fixed, the mistress and her two children came very
late; she made two excuses, first for her husband, who, as she said,
happened that very morning to _shnuwnh_.  The word is strongly expressive
in their language, but not easily rendered into English; it signifies,
“to retire to his first mother.”  Her excuse for not coming sooner, was,
that her husband dying late in the morning, she was a good while
consulting her servants about a convenient place where his body should be
laid; and I observed, she behaved herself at our house as cheerfully as
the rest.  She died about three months after.

They live generally to seventy, or seventy-five years, very seldom to
fourscore.  Some weeks before their death, they feel a gradual decay; but
without pain.  During this time they are much visited by their friends,
because they cannot go abroad with their usual ease and satisfaction.
However, about ten days before their death, which they seldom fail in
computing, they return the visits that have been made them by those who
are nearest in the neighbourhood, being carried in a convenient sledge
drawn by _Yahoos_; which vehicle they use, not only upon this occasion,
but when they grow old, upon long journeys, or when they are lamed by any
accident: and therefore when the dying _Houyhnhnms_ return those visits,
they take a solemn leave of their friends, as if they were going to some
remote part of the country, where they designed to pass the rest of their
lives.

I know not whether it may be worth observing, that the _Houyhnhnms_ have
no word in their language to express any thing that is evil, except what
they borrow from the deformities or ill qualities of the _Yahoos_.  Thus
they denote the folly of a servant, an omission of a child, a stone that
cuts their feet, a continuance of foul or unseasonable weather, and the
like, by adding to each the epithet of _Yahoo_.  For instance, _hhnm
Yahoo_; _whnaholm Yahoo_, _ynlhmndwihlma Yahoo_, and an ill-contrived
house _ynholmhnmrohlnw Yahoo_.

I could, with great pleasure, enlarge further upon the manners and
virtues of this excellent people; but intending in a short time to
publish a volume by itself, expressly upon that subject, I refer the
reader thither; and, in the mean time, proceed to relate my own sad
catastrophe.



CHAPTER X.


The author’s economy, and happy life, among the Houyhnhnms.  His great
improvement in virtue by conversing with them.  Their conversations.  The
author has notice given him by his master, that he must depart from the
country.  He falls into a swoon for grief; but submits.  He contrives and
finishes a canoe by the help of a fellow-servant, and puts to sea at a
venture.

I had settled my little economy to my own heart’s content.  My master had
ordered a room to be made for me, after their manner, about six yards
from the house: the sides and floors of which I plastered with clay, and
covered with rush-mats of my own contriving.  I had beaten hemp, which
there grows wild, and made of it a sort of ticking; this I filled with
the feathers of several birds I had taken with springes made of _Yahoos’_
hairs, and were excellent food.  I had worked two chairs with my knife,
the sorrel nag helping me in the grosser and more laborious part.  When
my clothes were worn to rags, I made myself others with the skins of
rabbits, and of a certain beautiful animal, about the same size, called
_nnuhnoh_, the skin of which is covered with a fine down.  Of these I
also made very tolerable stockings.  I soled my shoes with wood, which I
cut from a tree, and fitted to the upper-leather; and when this was worn
out, I supplied it with the skins of _Yahoos_ dried in the sun.  I often
got honey out of hollow trees, which I mingled with water, or ate with my
bread.  No man could more verify the truth of these two maxims, “That
nature is very easily satisfied;” and, “That necessity is the mother of
invention.”  I enjoyed perfect health of body, and tranquillity of mind;
I did not feel the treachery or inconstancy of a friend, nor the injuries
of a secret or open enemy.  I had no occasion of bribing, flattering, or
pimping, to procure the favour of any great man, or of his minion; I
wanted no fence against fraud or oppression: here was neither physician