o good as to dispense the
sugar-plumbs of the Government with a more impartial and frugal hand.

Ye prudes and censorious old maids, (the hopes of the Bench) exert
but your usual talent of finding faults, and the laws will be strictly
executed; only I would not have you proceed upon such slender evidences
as you have done hitherto.

It is from you, eloquent oyster-merchants of Billingsgate, (just ready
to be called to the Bar, and quoif'd like your sister-serjants,) that we
expect the shortening the time, and lessening the expences of law-suits:
For I think you are observ'd to bring your debates to a short issue; and
even custom will restrain you from taking the oyster, and leaving only
the shell to your client.

O ye physicians, (who in the figure of old women are to clean the tripe
in the markets) scour it as effectually as you have done that of your
patients, and the town will fare most deliciously on Saturdays.

I cannot but congratulate human nature, upon this happy transformation;
the only expedient left to restore the liberties and tranquillity of
mankind. This is so evident, that it is almost an affront to common
sense to insist upon the proof: If there can be any such stupid
creature as to doubt it, I desire he will make but the following obvious
reflection. There are in Europe alone, at present, about a million of
sturdy fellows, under the denomination of standing forces, with arms in
their hands: That those are masters of the lives, liberties and fortunes
of all the rest, I believe no body will deny. It is no less true in
fact, that reams of paper, and above a square mile of skins of vellum
have been employ'd to no purpose, to settle peace among those sons
of violence. Pray, who is he that will say unto them, Go and disband
yourselves? But lo! by this transformation it is done at once, and the
halcyon days of publick tranquillity return: For neither the military
temper nor discipline can taint the soft sex for a whole age to
come: Bellaque matribus invisa, War odious to mothers, will not grow
immediately palatable in their paternal state.

Nor will the influence of this transformation be less in family
tranquillity, than it is in national. Great faults will be amended, and
frailties forgiven, on both sides. A wife who has been disturb'd with
late hours, and choak'd with the hautgout of a sot, will remember her
sufferings, and avoid the temptations; and will, for the same reason,
indulge her mate in his female capacity in some passions, which she is
sensible from experience are natural to the sex. Such as vanity of fine
cloaths, being admir'd, etc. And how tenderly must she use her mate
under the breeding qualms and labour-pains which she hath felt her self?
In short, all unreasonable demands upon husbands must cease, because
they are already satisfy'd from natural experience that they are
impossible.

That the ladies may govern the affairs of the world, and the gentlemen
those of their household, better than either of them have hitherto done,
is the hearty desire of, Their most sincere well-wisher, M.S.


F