 tell you it.

Cut off those two notes above; and see the nine pounds indorsed, and
receive the other; and send me word how my accounts stand, that they
may be adjusted by Nov. 1.(22) Pray be very particular; but the twenty
pounds I lend you is not to be included: so make no blunder. I won't
wrong you, nor you shan't wrong me; that is the short. O Lord, how stout
Presto is of late! But he loves MD more than his life a thousand times,
for all his stoutness; tell them that; and that I'll swear it, as hope
saved, ten millions of times, etc. etc.

I open my letter once more, to tell Stella that if she does not use
exercise after her waters, it will lose all the effects of them: I
should not live if I did not take all opportunities of walking. Pray,
pray, do this, to oblige poor Presto.




LETTER 30.

WINDSOR, Sept. 8, 1711.

I made the coachman stop, and put in my twenty-ninth at the post-office
at two o'clock to-day, as I was going to Lord Treasurer, with whom I
dined, and came here by a quarter-past eight; but the moon shone, and so
we were not in much danger of overturning; which, however, he values not
a straw, and only laughs when I chide at him for it. There was
nobody but he and I, and we supped together, with Mr. Masham, and Dr.
Arbuthnot, the Queen's favourite physician, a Scotchman. I could not
keep myself awake after supper, but did all I was able to disguise it,
and thought I came off clear; but, at parting, he told me I had got my
nap already. It is now one o'clock; but he loves sitting up late.

9. The Queen is still in the gout, but recovering: she saw company in
her bed-chamber after church; but the crowd was so great, I could not
see her. I dined with my brother Sir William Wyndham,(1) and some others
of our Society, to avoid the great tables on Sunday at Windsor, which I
hate. The usual company supped to-night at Lord Treasurer's, which was
Lord Keeper, Mr. Secretary, George Granville, Masham, Arbuthnot, and
I. But showers have hindered me from walking to-day, and that I do not
love.--Noble fruit, and I dare not eat a bit. I ate one fig to-day, and
sometimes a few mulberries, because it is said they are wholesome, and
you know a good name does much. I shall return to town to-morrow, though
I thought to have stayed a week, to be at leisure for something I am
doing. But I have put it off till next; for I shall come here again on
Saturday, when our Society are to meet at supper at Mr. Secretary's.
My life is very regular here: on Sunday morning I constantly visit Lord
Keeper, and sup at Lord Treasurer's with the same set of company. I was
not sleepy to-night; I resolved I would not; yet it is past midnight at
this present writing.

London, 10. Lord Treasurer and Masham and I left Windsor at three this
afternoon: we dropped Masham at Kensington with his lady, and got home
by six. It was seven before we sat down to dinner, and I stayed till
past eleven. Patrick came home with the Secretary: I am more plagued
with Patrick and my portmantua than with myself. I forgot to tell you
that when I went to Windsor on Saturday I overtook Lady Giffard and
Mrs. Fenton(2) in a chariot, going, I suppose, to Sheen. I was then in
a chariot too, of Lord Treasurer's brother, who had business with the
Treasurer; and my lord came after, and overtook me at Turnham Green,
four miles from London; and then the brother went back, and I went in
the coach with Lord Treasurer: so it happened that those people saw me,
and not with Lord Treasurer. Mrs. F. was to see me about a week ago; and
desired I would get her son into the Charter-house.

11. This morning the printer sent me an account of Prior's Journey;(3)
it makes a twopenny pamphlet. I suppose you will see it, for I dare
engage it will run; 'tis a formal, grave lie, from the beginning to
the end. I writ all but about the last page; that I dictated, and the
printer writ. Mr. Secretary sent to me to dine where he did; it was
at Prior's: when I came in, Prior showed me the pamphlet, seemed to be
angry, and said, "Here is our English liberty!" I read some of it, and
said I liked it mightily, and envied the rogue the thought; for, had it
come into my head, I should have certainly done it myself. We stayed at
Prior's till past ten; and then the Secretary received a packet with the
news of Bouchain being taken, for which the guns will go off to-morrow.
Prior owned his having been in France, for it was past denying: it seems
he was discovered by a rascal at Dover, who had positive orders to let
him pass. I believe we shall have a peace.

12. It is terrible rainy weather, and has cost me three shillings in
coaches and chairs to-day, yet I was dirty into the bargain. I was three
hours this morning with the Secretary about some business of moment, and
then went into the City to dine. The printer tells me he sold yesterday
a thousand of Prior's Journey, and had printed five hundred more. It
will do rarely, I believe, and is a pure bite. And what is MD doing all
this while? got again to their cards, their Walls, their deans, their
Stoytes, and their claret? Pray present my service to Mr. Stoyte and
C