 but three of MD's: now I am beforehand, and
will keep so; and God Almighty bless dearest MD, etc.




LETTER 7.

LONDON, Oct. 19, 1710.

Faith, I am undone! this paper is larger than the other, and yet I am
condemned to a sheet; but, since it is MD, I did not value though I were
condemned to a pair. I told you in my letter to-day where I had been,
and how the day passed; and so, etc.

20. To-day I went to Mr. Lewis, at the Secretary's office, to know when
I might see Mr. Harley; and by and by comes up Mr. Harley himself, and
appoints me to dine with him to-morrow. I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh,(1)
and went to wait on the two Lady Butlers;(2) but the porter answered
they were not at home: the meaning was, the youngest, Lady Mary, is
to be married to-morrow to Lord Ashburnham,(3) the best match now in
England, twelve thousand pounds a year, and abundance of money. Tell me
how my "Shower" is liked in Ireland: I never knew anything pass better
here. I spent the evening with Wortley Montagu(4) and Mr. Addison, over
a bottle of Irish wine. Do they know anything in Ireland of my greatness
among the Tories? Everybody reproaches me of it here; but I value them
not. Have you heard of the verses about the "Rod of Sid Hamet"? Say
nothing of them for your life. Hardly anybody suspects me for them; only
they think nobody but Prior or I could write them. But I doubt they
have not reached you. There is likewise a ballad full of puns on the
Westminster Election,(5) that cost me half an hour: it runs, though it
be good for nothing. But this is likewise a secret to all but MD. If you
have them not, I will bring them over.

21. I got MD's fourth to-day at the Coffee-house. God Almighty bless
poor, dear Stella, and her eyes and head! What shall we do to cure them?
poor, dear life! Your disorders are a pull-back for your good qualities.
Would to Heaven I were this minute shaving your poor, dear head, either
here or there! Pray do not write, nor read this letter, nor anything
else; and I will write plainer for Dingley to read from henceforward,
though my pen is apt to ramble when I think whom I am writing to. I will
not answer your letter until I tell you that I dined this day with Mr.
Harley, who presented me to the Earl of Stirling,(6) a Scotch lord; and
in the evening came in Lord Peterborow. I stayed till nine before Mr.
Harley would let me go, or tell me anything of my affair. He says the
Queen has now granted the First-Fruits and Twentieth Parts; but he will
not give me leave to write to the Archbishop, because the Queen designs
to signify it to the Bishops in Ireland in form; and to take notice,
that it was done upon a memorial from me; which, Mr. Harley tells me he
does to make it look more respectful to me, etc.; and I am to see him
on Tuesday. I know not whether I told you that, in my memorial which was
given to the Queen, I begged for two thousand pounds a year more, though
it was not in my commission; but that, Mr. Harley says, cannot yet be
done, and that he and I must talk of it further: however, I have started
it, and it may follow in time. Pray say nothing of the First-Fruits
being granted, unless I give leave at the bottom of this. I believe
never anything was compassed so soon, and purely done by my personal
credit with Mr. Harley, who is so excessively obliging, that I know not
what to make of it, unless to show the rascals of the other party that
they used a man unworthily who had deserved better. The memorial given
to the Queen from me speaks with great plainness of Lord Wharton. I
believe this business is as important to you as the Convocation disputes
from Tisdall.(7) I hope in a month or two all the forms of settling this
matter will be over; and then I shall have nothing to do here. I will
only add one foolish thing more, because it is just come into my head.
When this thing is made known, tell me impartially whether they give
any of the merit to me, or no; for I am sure I have so much, that I will
never take it upon me.--Insolent sluts! because I say Dublin, Ireland,
therefore you must say London, England: that is Stella's malice.--Well,
for that I will not answer your letter till to-morrow-day, and so and
so: I will go write something else, and it will not be much; for 'tis
late.

22. I was this morning with Mr. Lewis, the under-secretary to Lord
Dartmouth, two hours, talking politics, and contriving to keep Steele in
his office of stamped paper: he has lost his place of Gazetteer, three
hundred pounds a year, for writing a Tatler,(8) some months ago, against
Mr. Harley, who gave it him at first, and raised the salary from sixty
to three hundred pounds. This was devilish ungrateful; and Lewis was
telling me the particulars: but I had a hint given me, that I might save
him in the other employment: and leave was given me to clear matters
with Steele. Well, I dined with Sir Matthew Dudley, and in the evening
went to sit with Mr. Addison, and offer the matter at distance to him,
as the discreeter person; but found party had so possessed him, that
he talked as if he suspected me, and would not fall in with anything I
said. So