ls is
much better of her eye; and the Dean is just as he used to be: and what
does Walls say of London? 'tis a reasoning coxcomb. And Goody Stoyte,
and Hannah what d'ye call her; no, her name an't Hannah, Catherine I
mean; they were so glad to see the ladies again! and Mrs. Manley wanted
a companion at ombre.

21. I writ to-day to the Archbishop of Dublin, and enclosed a long
politic paper by itself. You know the bishops are all angry (smoke the
wax-candle drop at the bottom of this paper) I have let the world know
the First-Fruits were got by Lord Treasurer before the Duke of Ormond
was Governor. I told Lord Treasurer all this, and he is very angry; but
I pacified him again by telling him they were fools, and knew nothing of
what passed here; but thought all was well enough if they complimented
the Duke of Ormond. Lord Treasurer gave me t'other day a letter of
thanks he received from the bishops of Ireland, signed by seventeen;
and says he will write them an answer. The Dean of Carlisle sat with
me to-day till three; and I went to dine with Lord Treasurer, who dined
abroad, so did the Secretary, and I was left in the suds. 'Twas almost
four, and I got to Sir Matthew Dudley, who had half dined. Thornhill,
who killed Sir Cholmley Dering,(15) was murdered by two men, on Turnham
Green, last Monday night: as they stabbed him, they bid him remember Sir
Cholmley Dering. They had quarrelled at Hampton Court, and followed and
stabbed him on horseback. We have only a Grub Street paper of it, but I
believe it is true. I went myself through Turnham Green the same night,
which was yesterday.

22. We have had terrible rains these two or three days. I intended to
dine at Lord Treasurer's, but went to see Lady Abercorn, who is come
to town, and my lord; and I dined with them, and visited Lord Treasurer
this evening. His porter is mending. I sat with my lord about
three hours, and am come home early to be busy. Passing by White's
Chocolate-house,(16) my brother Masham called me, and told me his wife
was brought to bed of a boy, and both very well. (Our Society, you must
know, are all brothers.) Dr. Garth told us that Mr. Henley(17) is dead
of an apoplexy. His brother-in-law, Earl Poulett, is gone down to the
Grange, to take care of his funeral. The Earl of Danby,(18) the Duke of
Leeds's eldest grandson, a very hopeful young man of about twenty, is
dead at Utrecht of the smallpox.--I long to know whether you begin
to have any good effect by your waters.--Methinks this letter goes on
slowly; 'twill be a fortnight next Saturday since it was begun, and one
side not filled. O fie for shame, Presto! Faith, I'm so tosticated to
and from Windsor, that I know not what to say; but, faith, I'll go to
Windsor again on Saturday, if they ask me, not else. So lose your money
again, now you are come home; do, sirrah.

Take your magnifying-glass, Madam Dingley.

You shan't read this, sirrah Stella; don't read it for your life, for
fear of your dearest eyes.

There's enough for this side; these Ministers hinder me. Pretty, dear,
little, naughty, saucy MD.

Silly, impudent, loggerhead Presto.

23. Dilly and I dined to-day with Lord Abercorn, and had a fine fat
haunch of venison, that smelt rarely on one side: and after dinner
Dilly won half a crown of me at backgammon at his lodgings, to his great
content. It is a scurvy empty town this melancholy season of the year;
but I think our weather begins to mend. The roads are as deep as in
winter. The grapes are sad things; but the peaches are pretty good, and
there are some figs. I sometimes venture to eat one, but always repent
it. You say nothing of the box sent half a year ago. I wish you would
pay me for Mrs. Walls's tea. Your mother is in the country, I suppose.
Pray send me the account of MD, Madam Dingley, as it stands since
November,(19) that is to say, for this year (excluding the twenty pounds
lent Stella for Wexford), for I cannot look in your letters. I think I
ordered that Hawkshaw's interest should be paid to you. When you think
proper, I will let Parvisol know you have paid that twenty pounds, or
part of it; and so go play with the Dean, and I will answer your letter
to-morrow. Good-night, sirrahs, and love Presto, and be good girls.

24. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for not dining with
him yesterday, for it seems I did not understand his invitation;
and their Club of the Ministry dined together, and expected me. Lord
Radnor(20) and I were walking the Mall this evening; and Mr. Secretary
met us, and took a turn or two, and then stole away, and we both
believed it was to pick up some wench; and to-morrow he will be at the
Cabinet with the Queen: so goes the world! Prior has been out of town
these two months, nobody knows where, and is lately returned. People
confidently affirm he has been in France, and I half believe it. It
is said he was sent by the Ministry, and for some overtures towards a
peace. The Secretary pretends he knows nothing of it. I believe your
Parliament will be dissolved. I have been talking about the quarrel
between your Lords and Commons with Lord Treasurer, an