tions and behaviour in brute beasts;
and concluded with myself, that if the inhabitants of this country were
endued with a proportionable degree of reason, they must needs be the
wisest people upon earth.  This thought gave me so much comfort, that I
resolved to go forward, until I could discover some house or village, or
meet with any of the natives, leaving the two horses to discourse
together as they pleased.  But the first, who was a dapple gray,
observing me to steal off, neighed after me in so expressive a tone, that
I fancied myself to understand what he meant; whereupon I turned back,
and came near to him to expect his farther commands: but concealing my
fear as much as I could, for I began to be in some pain how this
adventure might terminate; and the reader will easily believe I did not
much like my present situation.

The two horses came up close to me, looking with great earnestness upon
my face and hands.  The gray steed rubbed my hat all round with his right
fore-hoof, and discomposed it so much that I was forced to adjust it
better by taking it off and settling it again; whereat, both he and his
companion (who was a brown bay) appeared to be much surprised: the latter
felt the lappet of my coat, and finding it to hang loose about me, they
both looked with new signs of wonder.  He stroked my right hand, seeming
to admire the softness and colour; but he squeezed it so hard between his
hoof and his pastern, that I was forced to roar; after which they both
touched me with all possible tenderness.  They were under great
perplexity about my shoes and stockings, which they felt very often,
neighing to each other, and using various gestures, not unlike those of a
philosopher, when he would attempt to solve some new and difficult
phenomenon.

Upon the whole, the behaviour of these animals was so orderly and
rational, so acute and judicious, that I at last concluded they must
needs be magicians, who had thus metamorphosed themselves upon some
design, and seeing a stranger in the way, resolved to divert themselves
with him; or, perhaps, were really amazed at the sight of a man so very
different in habit, feature, and complexion, from those who might
probably live in so remote a climate.  Upon the strength of this
reasoning, I ventured to address them in the following manner:
“Gentlemen, if you be conjurers, as I have good cause to believe, you can
understand my language; therefore I make bold to let your worships know
that I am a poor distressed Englishman, driven by his misfortunes upon
your coast; and I entreat one of you to let me ride upon his back, as if
he were a real horse, to some house or village where I can be relieved.
In return of which favour, I will make you a present of this knife and
bracelet,” taking them out of my pocket.  The two creatures stood silent
while I spoke, seeming to listen with great attention, and when I had
ended, they neighed frequently towards each other, as if they were
engaged in serious conversation.  I plainly observed that their language
expressed the passions very well, and the words might, with little pains,
be resolved into an alphabet more easily than the Chinese.

I could frequently distinguish the word _Yahoo_, which was repeated by
each of them several times: and although it was impossible for me to
conjecture what it meant, yet while the two horses were busy in
conversation, I endeavoured to practise this word upon my tongue; and as
soon as they were silent, I boldly pronounced _Yahoo_ in a loud voice,
imitating at the same time, as near as I could, the neighing of a horse;
at which they were both visibly surprised; and the gray repeated the same
word twice, as if he meant to teach me the right accent; wherein I spoke
after him as well as I could, and found myself perceivably to improve
every time, though very far from any degree of perfection.  Then the bay
tried me with a second word, much harder to be pronounced; but reducing
it to the English orthography, may be spelt thus, _Houyhnhnm_.  I did not
succeed in this so well as in the former; but after two or three farther
trials, I had better fortune; and they both appeared amazed at my
capacity.

After some further discourse, which I then conjectured might relate to
me, the two friends took their leaves, with the same compliment of
striking each other’s hoof; and the gray made me signs that I should walk
before him; wherein I thought it prudent to comply, till I could find a
better director.  When I offered to slacken my pace, he would cry _hhuun
hhuun_: I guessed his meaning, and gave him to understand, as well as I
could, “that I was weary, and not able to walk faster;” upon which he
would stand awhile to let me rest.



CHAPTER II.


The author conducted by a Houyhnhnm to his house.  The house described.
The author’s reception.  The food of the Houyhnhnms.  The author in
distress for want of meat.  Is at last relieved.  His manner of feeding
in this country.

Having travelled about three miles, we came to a long kind of building,
made of timber stuck in the ground, and wattled across; the roof was low
and covered with 