thing will be done in my own
affairs: if the former, I will be a solicitor for your sister;(13) if
the latter, I have done with Courts for ever. Opportunities will often
fall in my way, if I am used well, and I will then make it my business.
It is my delight to do good offices for people who want and deserve, and
a tenfold delight to do it to a relation of Ppt, whose affairs she has
so at heart.(14) I have taken down his name and his case (not HER case),
and whenever a proper time comes, I will do all I can; zat's enough to
say when I can do no more; and I beg oo pardon a sousand times,(15) that
I cannot do better. I hope the Dean of St. P(atrick's) is well of his
fever: he has never writ to me: I am glad of it; pray don't desire him
to write. I have dated your bill late, because it must not commence, ung
oomens, till the first of November(16) next. O, fais, I must be ise;(17)
iss, fais, must I; else ME will cheat Pdfr. Are you good housewives and
readers? Are you walkers? I know you are gamesters. Are you drinkers?
Are you-- O Rold, I must go no further, for fear of abusing fine
radies.(18) Parvisol has never sent me one word how he set this year's
tithes. Pray ask whether tithes set well or ill this year. The Bishop
of Killaloe(19) tells me wool bears a good rate in Ireland: but how is
corn? I dined yesterday with Lady Orkney, and we sat alone from two
till eleven at night.--You have heard of her, I suppose. I have twenty
letters upon my hands, and am so lazy and so busy, I cannot answer them,
and they grow upon me for several months. Have I any apples at Laracor?
It is strange every year should blast them, when I took so much care
for shelter. Lord Bolingbroke has been idle at his country-house this
fortnight, which puts me backward in a business I have. I am got into an
ordinary room two pair of stairs, and see nobody, if I can help it;
yet some puppies have found me out, and my man is not such an artist as
Patrick at denying me. Patrick has been soliciting to come to me again,
but in vain. The printer has been here with some of the new whims
printed, and has taken up my time. I am just going out, and can only bid
oo farewell. Farewell, deelest ickle MD, MD MD MD FW FW FW FW ME ME ME
ME. Lele deel ME. Lele lele lele sollahs bose.(20)




LETTER 54.(1)

LONDON, Oct. 28, 1712.

I have been in physic this month, and have been better these three
weeks. I stop my physic, by the doctor's orders, till he sends me
further directions. DD grows politician, and longs to hear the peace
is proclaimed. I hope we shall have it soon, for the Dutch are fully
humbled; and Prior is just come over from France for a few days; I
suppose upon some important affair. I saw him last night, but had no
private talk with him. Stocks rise upon his coming. As for my stay in
England, it cannot be long now, so tell my friends. The Parliament will
not meet till after Christmas, and by that time the work I am doing will
be over, and then nothing shall keep me. I am very much discontented at
Parvisol, about neglecting to sell my horses, etc.

Lady Masham is not yet brought to bed; but we expect it daily. I dined
with her to-day. Lord Bolingbroke returned about two months ago, and
Prior about a week; and goes back (Prior I mean) in a few days. Who told
you of my snuff-box and pocket? Did I? I had a letter to-day from Dr.
Coghill,(2) desiring me to get Raphoe for Dean Sterne, and the deanery
for myself. I shall indeed, I have such obligations to Sterne. But
however, if I am asked who will make a good bishop, I shall name him
before anybody. Then comes another letter, desiring I would recommend a
Provost,(3) supposing that Pratt (who has been here about a week) will
certainly be promoted; but I believe he will not. I presented Pratt to
Lord Treasurer, and truly young Molyneux(4) would have had me present
him too; but I directly answered him I would not, unless he had business
with him. He is the son of one Mr. Molyneux of Ireland. His father wrote
a book;(5) I suppose you know it. Here is the Duke of Marlborough going
out of England (Lord knows why), which causes many speculations. Some
say he is conscious of guilt, and dare not stand it. Others think he has
a mind to fling an odium on the Government, as who should say that one
who has done such great services to his country cannot live quietly in
it, by reason of the malice of his enemies. I have helped to patch up
these people(6) together once more. God knows how long it may last.
I was to-day at a trial between Lord Lansdowne and Lord Carteret, two
friends of mine. It was in the Queen's Bench, for about six thousand a
year (or nine, I think). I sat under Lord Chief-Justice Parker, and his
pen falling down I reached it up. He made me a low bow; and I was going
to whisper him that I HAD DONE GOOD FOR EVIL; FOR HE WOULD HAVE TAKEN
MINE FROM ME.(7) I told it Lord Treasurer and Bolingbroke. Parker would
not have known me, if several lords on the bench, and in the court,
bowing, had not turned everybody's eyes, and set them a whispering. I
owe the dog a spite, and will pay him in two months at furthest, if
I can