se people turned out?" I said, yes, if I saw the Duke and Duchess of
Somerset out: he swore if they were not, he would give up his place. Our
Society dined to-day at Sir William Wyndham's; we were thirteen present.
Lord Orrery and two other members were introduced: I left them at seven.
I forgot to tell you that the printer told me yesterday that Morphew,
the publisher, was sent for by that Lord Chief-Justice, who was a
manager against Sacheverell; he showed him two or three papers and
pamphlets; among the rest mine of the Conduct of the Allies, threatened
him, asked who was the author, and has bound him over to appear next
term. He would not have the impudence to do this, if he did not foresee
what was coming at Court.

14. Lord Shelburne was with me this morning, to be informed of the state
of affairs, and desired I would answer all his objections against a
peace, which was soon done, for he would not give me room to put in a
word. He is a man of good sense enough; but argues so violently, that he
will some day or other put himself into a consumption. He desires that
he may not be denied when he comes to see me, which I promised, but will
not perform. Leigh and Sterne set out for Ireland on Monday se'nnight: I
suppose they will be with you long before this.--I was to-night drinking
very good wine in scurvy company, at least some of them; I was drawn in,
but will be more cautious for the future; 'tis late, etc.

15. Morning. They say the Occasional Bill(19) is brought to-day into the
House of Lords; but I know not. I will now put an end to my letter, and
give it into the post-house myself. This will be a memorable letter, and
I shall sigh to see it some years hence. Here are the first steps toward
the ruin of an excellent Ministry; for I look upon them as certainly
ruined; and God knows what may be the consequences.--I now bid my
dearest MD farewell; for company is coming, and I must be at Lord
Dartmouth's office by noon. Farewell, dearest MD; I wish you a merry
Christmas; I believe you will have this about that time. Love Presto,
who loves MD above all things a thousand times. Farewell again, dearest
MD, etc.




LETTER 37.

LONDON, Dec. 15, 1711.

I put in my letter this evening myself. I was to-day inquiring at the
Secretary's office of Mr. Lewis how things went: I there met Prior,
who told me he gave all for gone, etc., and was of opinion the whole
Ministry would give up their places next week: Lewis thinks they
will not till spring, when the session is over; both of them entirely
despair. I went to see Mrs. Masham, who invited me to dinner; but I was
engaged to Lewis. At four I went to Masham's. He came and whispered me
that he had it from a very good hand that all would be well, and I found
them both very cheerful. The company was going to the opera, but desired
I would come and sup with them. I did so at ten, and Lord Treasurer was
there, and sat with us till past twelve, and was more cheerful than I
have seen him these ten days. Mrs. Masham told me he was mightily cast
down some days ago, and he could not indeed hide it from me. Arbuthnot
is in good hopes that the Queen has not betrayed us, but only has been
frightened, and flattered, etc. But I cannot yet be of his opinion,
whether my reasons are better, or that my fears are greater. I do
resolve, if they give up, or are turned out soon, to retire for some
months, and I have pitched upon the place already: but I will take
methods for hearing from MD, and writing to them. But I would be out of
the way upon the first of the ferment; for they lay all things on me,
even some I have never read.

16. I took courage to-day, and went to Court with a very cheerful
countenance. It was mightily crowded; both parties coming to observe
each other's faces. I have avoided Lord Halifax's bow till he forced
it on me; but we did not talk together. I could not make less than
fourscore bows, of which about twenty might be to Whigs. The Duke of
Somerset is gone to Petworth, and, I hear, the Duchess too, of which I
shall be very glad. Prince Eugene,(1) who was expected here some days
ago, we are now told, will not come at all. The Whigs designed to have
met him with forty thousand horse. Lord Treasurer told me some days ago
of his discourse with the Emperor's Resident, that puppy Hoffman, about
Prince Eugene's coming; by which I found my lord would hinder it, if he
could; and we shall be all glad if he does not come, and think it a good
point gained. Sir Andrew Fountaine, Ford, and I dined to-day with Mrs.
Van, by invitation.

17. I have mistaken the day of the month, and been forced to mend it
thrice. I dined to-day with Mr. Masham and his lady, by invitation. Lord
Treasurer was to be there, but came not. It was to entertain Buys, the
Dutch Envoy, who speaks English well enough: he was plaguily politic,
telling a thousand lies, of which none passed upon any of us. We are
still in the condition of suspense, and I think have little hopes. The
Duchess of Somerset is not gone to Petworth; only the Duke, and that is
a poor sacrifice. I believe the Queen certainly designs to change the
Minis