n my account.  The treasurer took a fancy to
be jealous of his wife, from the malice of some evil tongues, who
informed him that her grace had taken a violent affection for my person;
and the court scandal ran for some time, that she once came privately to
my lodging.  This I solemnly declare to be a most infamous falsehood,
without any grounds, further than that her grace was pleased to treat me
with all innocent marks of freedom and friendship.  I own she came often
to my house, but always publicly, nor ever without three more in the
coach, who were usually her sister and young daughter, and some
particular acquaintance; but this was common to many other ladies of the
court.  And I still appeal to my servants round, whether they at any time
saw a coach at my door, without knowing what persons were in it.  On
those occasions, when a servant had given me notice, my custom was to go
immediately to the door, and, after paying my respects, to take up the
coach and two horses very carefully in my hands (for, if there were six
horses, the postillion always unharnessed four,) and place them on a
table, where I had fixed a movable rim quite round, of five inches high,
to prevent accidents.  And I have often had four coaches and horses at
once on my table, full of company, while I sat in my chair, leaning my
face towards them; and when I was engaged with one set, the coachmen
would gently drive the others round my table.  I have passed many an
afternoon very agreeably in these conversations.  But I defy the
treasurer, or his two informers (I will name them, and let them make the
best of it) Clustril and Drunlo, to prove that any person ever came to me
_incognito_, except the secretary Reldresal, who was sent by express
command of his imperial majesty, as I have before related.  I should not
have dwelt so long upon this particular, if it had not been a point
wherein the reputation of a great lady is so nearly concerned, to say
nothing of my own; though I then had the honour to be a _nardac_, which
the treasurer himself is not; for all the world knows, that he is only a
_glumglum_, a title inferior by one degree, as that of a marquis is to a
duke in England; yet I allow he preceded me in right of his post.  These
false informations, which I afterwards came to the knowledge of by an
accident not proper to mention, made the treasurer show his lady for some
time an ill countenance, and me a worse; and although he was at last
undeceived and reconciled to her, yet I lost all credit with him, and
found my interest decline very fast with the emperor himself, who was,
indeed, too much governed by that favourite.



CHAPTER VII.


The author, being informed of a design to accuse him of high-treason,
makes his escape to Blefuscu.  His reception there.

Before I proceed to give an account of my leaving this kingdom, it may be
proper to inform the reader of a private intrigue which had been for two
months forming against me.

I had been hitherto, all my life, a stranger to courts, for which I was
unqualified by the meanness of my condition.  I had indeed heard and read
enough of the dispositions of great princes and ministers, but never
expected to have found such terrible effects of them, in so remote a
country, governed, as I thought, by very different maxims from those in
Europe.

When I was just preparing to pay my attendance on the emperor of
Blefuscu, a considerable person at court (to whom I had been very
serviceable, at a time when he lay under the highest displeasure of his
imperial majesty) came to my house very privately at night, in a close
chair, and, without sending his name, desired admittance.  The chairmen
were dismissed; I put the chair, with his lordship in it, into my
coat-pocket: and, giving orders to a trusty servant, to say I was
indisposed and gone to sleep, I fastened the door of my house, placed the
chair on the table, according to my usual custom, and sat down by it.
After the common salutations were over, observing his lordship’s
countenance full of concern, and inquiring into the reason, he desired “I
would hear him with patience, in a matter that highly concerned my honour
and my life.”  His speech was to the following effect, for I took notes
of it as soon as he left me:—

“You are to know,” said he, “that several committees of council have been
lately called, in the most private manner, on your account; and it is but
two days since his majesty came to a full resolution.

“You are very sensible that Skyresh Bolgolam” (_galbet_, or high-admiral)
“has been your mortal enemy, almost ever since your arrival.  His
original reasons I know not; but his hatred is increased since your great
success against Blefuscu, by which his glory as admiral is much obscured.
This lord, in conjunction with Flimnap the high-treasurer, whose enmity
against you is notorious on account of his lady, Limtoc the general,
Lalcon the chamberlain, and Balmuff the grand justiciary, have prepared
articles of impeachment against you, for treason and other capital
crimes.”

This preface made me so impatient, being conscious of my own merits and
innoce