t my earnest request he
led me up to the highest room backwards.  I conjured him “to conceal from
all persons what I had told him of the _Houyhnhnms_; because the least
hint of such a story would not only draw numbers of people to see me, but
probably put me in danger of being imprisoned, or burnt by the
Inquisition.”  The captain persuaded me to accept a suit of clothes newly
made; but I would not suffer the tailor to take my measure; however, Don
Pedro being almost of my size, they fitted me well enough.  He accoutred
me with other necessaries, all new, which I aired for twenty-four hours
before I would use them.

The captain had no wife, nor above three servants, none of which were
suffered to attend at meals; and his whole deportment was so obliging,
added to very good human understanding, that I really began to tolerate
his company.  He gained so far upon me, that I ventured to look out of
the back window.  By degrees I was brought into another room, whence I
peeped into the street, but drew my head back in a fright.  In a week’s
time he seduced me down to the door.  I found my terror gradually
lessened, but my hatred and contempt seemed to increase.  I was at last
bold enough to walk the street in his company, but kept my nose well
stopped with rue, or sometimes with tobacco.

In ten days, Don Pedro, to whom I had given some account of my domestic
affairs, put it upon me, as a matter of honour and conscience, “that I
ought to return to my native country, and live at home with my wife and
children.”  He told me, “there was an English ship in the port just ready
to sail, and he would furnish me with all things necessary.”  It would be
tedious to repeat his arguments, and my contradictions.  He said, “it was
altogether impossible to find such a solitary island as I desired to live
in; but I might command in my own house, and pass my time in a manner as
recluse as I pleased.”

I complied at last, finding I could not do better.  I left Lisbon the
24th day of November, in an English merchantman, but who was the master I
never inquired.  Don Pedro accompanied me to the ship, and lent me twenty
pounds.  He took kind leave of me, and embraced me at parting, which I
bore as well as I could.  During this last voyage I had no commerce with
the master or any of his men; but, pretending I was sick, kept close in
my cabin.  On the fifth of December, 1715, we cast anchor in the Downs,
about nine in the morning, and at three in the afternoon I got safe to my
house at Rotherhith. {546}

My wife and family received me with great surprise and joy, because they
concluded me certainly dead; but I must freely confess the sight of them
filled me only with hatred, disgust, and contempt; and the more, by
reflecting on the near alliance I had to them.  For although, since my
unfortunate exile from the _Houyhnhnm_ country, I had compelled myself to
tolerate the sight of _Yahoos_, and to converse with Don Pedro de Mendez,
yet my memory and imagination were perpetually filled with the virtues
and ideas of those exalted _Houyhnhnms_.  And when I began to consider
that, by copulating with one of the _Yahoo_ species I had become a parent
of more, it struck me with the utmost shame, confusion, and horror.

As soon as I entered the house, my wife took me in her arms, and kissed
me; at which, having not been used to the touch of that odious animal for
so many years, I fell into a swoon for almost an hour.  At the time I am
writing, it is five years since my last return to England.  During the
first year, I could not endure my wife or children in my presence; the
very smell of them was intolerable; much less could I suffer them to eat
in the same room.  To this hour they dare not presume to touch my bread,
or drink out of the same cup, neither was I ever able to let one of them
take me by the hand.  The first money I laid out was to buy two young
stone-horses, which I keep in a good stable; and next to them, the groom
is my greatest favourite, for I feel my spirits revived by the smell he
contracts in the stable.  My horses understand me tolerably well; I
converse with them at least four hours every day.  They are strangers to
bridle or saddle; they live in great amity with me and friendship to each
other.



CHAPTER XII.


The author’s veracity.  His design in publishing this work.  His censure
of those travellers who swerve from the truth.  The author clears himself
from any sinister ends in writing.  An objection answered.  The method of
planting colonies.  His native country commended.  The right of the crown
to those countries described by the author is justified.  The difficulty
of conquering them.  The author takes his last leave of the reader;
proposes his manner of living for the future; gives good advice, and
concludes.

Thus, gentle reader, I have given thee a faithful history of my travels
for sixteen years and above seven months: wherein I have not been so
studious of ornament as of truth.  I could, perhaps, like others, have
astonished thee with strange improbable tales; but I rather chose to
relate plain matter of fact, in the simplest mann