for me?(30) Very well. Why, would they have me stand here
and preach to them? No, the Tatler of the Shilling(31) was not mine,
more than the hint, and two or three general heads for it. I have much
more important business on my hands; and, besides, the Ministry hate
to think that I should help him, and have made reproaches on it; and I
frankly told them I would do it no more. This is a secret though, Madam
Stella. You win eight shillings? you win eight fiddlesticks. Faith, you
say nothing of what you lose, young women.--I hope Manley is in no great
danger; for Ned Southwell is his friend, and so is Sir Thomas Frankland;
and his brother John Manley stands up heartily for him. On t'other
side, all the gentlemen of Ireland here are furiously against him. Now,
Mistress Dingley, an't you an impudent slut, to expect a letter next
packet from Presto, when you confess yourself that you had so lately
two letters in four days? Unreasonable baggage! No, little Dingley, I am
always in bed by twelve; I mean my candle is out by twelve, and I take
great care of myself. Pray let everybody know, upon occasion, that Mr.
Harley got the First-Fruits from the Queen for the clergy of Ireland,
and that nothing remains but the forms, etc. So you say the Dean and
you dined at Stoyte's, and Mrs. Stoyte was in raptures that I remembered
her. I must do it but seldom, or it will take off her rapture. But what
now, you saucy sluts? all this written in a morning, and I must rise and
go abroad. Pray stay till night: do not think I will squander mornings
upon you, pray, good madam. Faith, if I go on longer in this trick of
writing in the morning, I shall be afraid of leaving it off, and think
you expect it, and be in awe. Good-morrow, sirrahs, I will rise.--At
night. I went to-day to the Court of Requests (I will not answer the
rest of your letter yet, that by the way, in hopes to dine with Mr.
Harley: but Lord Dupplin,(32) his son-in-law, told me he did not dine at
home; so I was at a loss, until I met with Mr. Secretary St. John, and
went home and dined with him, where he told me of a good bite.(33)
Lord Rivers told me two days ago, that he was resolved to come Sunday
fortnight next to hear me preach before the Queen. I assured him the day
was not yet fixed, and I knew nothing of it. To-day the Secretary told
me that his father, Sir Harry St. John,(34) and Lord Rivers were to be
at St. James's Church, to hear me preach there; and were assured I was
to preach: so there will be another bite; for I know nothing of the
matter, but that Mr. Harley and St. John are resolved I must preach
before the Queen; and the Secretary of State has told me he will give
me three weeks' warning; but I desired to be excused, which he will not.
St. John, "You shall not be excused": however, I hope they will forget
it; for if it should happen, all the puppies hereabouts will throng to
hear me, and expect something wonderful, and be plaguily baulked; for I
shall preach plain honest stuff. I stayed with St. John till eight, and
then came home; and Patrick desired leave to go abroad, and by and by
comes up the girl to tell me, a gentleman was below in a coach, who had
a bill to pay me; so I let him come up, and who should it be but Mr.
Addison and Sam Dopping, to haul me out to supper, where I stayed till
twelve. If Patrick had been at home, I should have 'scaped this; for I
have taught him to deny me almost as well as Mr. Harley's porter.--Where
did I leave off in MD's letter? let me see. So, now I have it. You are
pleased to say, Madam Dingley, that those who go for England can never
tell when to come back. Do you mean this as a reflection upon Presto,
madam? Sauceboxes, I will come back as soon as I can, as hope saved,(35)
and I hope with some advantage, unless all Ministries be alike, as
perhaps they may. I hope Hawkshaw is in Dublin before now, and that you
have your things, and like your spectacles: if you do not, you shall
have better. I hope Dingley's tobacco did not spoil Stella's chocolate,
and that all is safe: pray let me know. Mr. Addison and I are different
as black and white, and I believe our friendship will go off, by this
damned business of party: he cannot bear seeing me fall in so with
this Ministry: but I love him still as well as ever, though we seldom
meet.--Hussy, Stella, you jest about poor Congreve's eyes;(36) you do
so, hussy; but I'll bang your bones, faith.--Yes, Steele was a little
while in prison, or at least in a spunging-house, some time before
I came, but not since.(37)--Pox on your convocations, and your
Lamberts;(38) they write with a vengeance! I suppose you think it a
piece of affectation in me to wish your Irish folks would not like my
"Shower,"; but you are mistaken. I should be glad to have the general
applause there as I have here (though I say it); but I have only that of
one or two, and therefore I would have none at all, but let you all be
in the wrong. I don't know, this is not what I would say; but I am so
tosticated with supper and stuff, that I can't express myself.--What you
say of "Sid Hamet" is well enough; that an enemy should li