st notice by a letter from me. I ate sturgeon, and it lies on my
stomach. I almost finished Prior's Journey at the printer's; and came
home pretty late, with Patrick at my heels.

7. Morning. But what shall we do about this letter of MD's, N.19? Not a
word answered yet, and so much paper spent! I cannot do anything in
it, sweethearts, till night.--At night. O Lord, O Lord! the greatest
disgrace that ever was has happened to Presto. What do you think? but,
when I was going out this forenoon a letter came from MD, N.20, dated
Dublin. O dear, O dear! O sad, O sad!--Now I have two letters together
to answer: here they are, lying together. But I will only answer the
first; for I came in late. I dined with my friend Lewis at his lodgings,
and walked at six to Kensington to Mrs. Masham's son's christening.
It was very private; nobody there but my Lord Treasurer, his son and
son-in-law, that is to say, Lord Harley and Lord Dupplin, and Lord
Rivers and I. The Dean of Rochester(14) christened the child, but soon
went away. Lord Treasurer and Lord Rivers were godfathers; and Mrs.
Hill,(15) Mrs. Masham's sister, godmother. The child roared like a bull,
and I gave Mrs. Masham joy of it; and she charged me to take care of my
nephew, because, Mr. Masham being a brother of our Society, his son, you
know, is consequently a nephew. Mrs. Masham sat up dressed in bed, but
not, as they do in Ireland, with all smooth about her, as if she was
cut off in the middle; for you might see the counterpane (what d'ye
call it?) rise about her hips and body. There is another name of the
counterpane; and you will laugh now, sirrahs. George Granville came in
at supper, and we stayed till eleven; and Lord Treasurer set me down at
my lodging in Suffolk Street. Did I ever tell you that Lord Treasurer
hears ill with the left ear, just as I do? He always turns the right,
and his servants whisper him at that only. I dare not tell him that I am
so too, for fear he should think I counterfeited, to make my court.

6. You must read this before the other; for I mistook, and forgot to
write yesterday's journal, it was so insignificant. I dined with Dr.
Cockburn, and sat the evening with Lord Treasurer till ten o'clock.
On Thursdays he has always a large select company, and expects me. So
good-night for last night, etc.

8. Morning. I go to Windsor with Lord Treasurer to-day, and will leave
this behind me, to be sent to the post. And now let us hear what says
the first letter, N.19. You are still at Wexford, as you say, Madam
Dingley. I think no letter from me ever yet miscarried. And so
Inish-Corthy,(16) and the river Slainy; fine words those in a lady's
mouth. Your hand like Dingley's, you scambling,(17) scattering
sluttikin! YES, MIGHTY LIKE INDEED, IS NOT IT?(18) Pisshh, do not talk
of writing or reading till your eyes are well, and long well; only I
would have Dingley read sometimes to you, that you may not lose the
desire of it. God be thanked, that the ugly numbing is gone! Pray
use exercise when you go to town. What game is that ombra which
Dr. Elwood(19) and you play at? is it the Spanish game ombre? Your
card-purse? you a card-purse! you a fiddlestick. You have luck indeed;
and luck in a bag. What a devil! is that eight-shilling tea-kettle
copper, or tin japanned? It is like your Irish politeness, raffling for
tea-kettles. What a splutter you keep, to convince me that Walls has
no taste! My head continues pretty well. Why do you write, dear sirrah
Stella, when you find your eyes so weak that you cannot see? what
comfort is there in reading what you write, when one knows that? So
Dingley cannot write, because of the clutter of new company come to
Wexford! I suppose the noise of their hundred horses disturbs you; or
do you lie in one gallery, as in an hospital? What! you are afraid of
losing in Dublin the acquaintance you have got in Wexford, and chiefly
the Bishop of Raphoe,(20) an old, doting, perverse coxcomb? Twenty at a
time at breakfast. That is like five pounds at a time, when it was never
but once. I doubt, Madam Dingley, you are apt to lie in your travels,
though not so bad as Stella; she tells thumpers, as I shall prove in my
next, if I find this receives encouragement.--So Dr. Elwood says there
are a world of pretty things in my works. A pox on his praises! an enemy
here would say more. The Duke of Buckingham would say as much, though
he and I are terribly fallen out; and the great men are perpetually
inflaming me against him: they bring me all he says of me, and, I
believe, make it worse out of roguery.--No, 'tis not your pen is
bewitched, Madam Stella, but your old SCRAWLING, SPLAY-FOOT POT-HOOKS,
S, S,(21) ay that's it: there the s, s, s, there, there, that's exact.
Farewell, etc.

Our fine weather is gone; and I doubt we shall have a rainy journey
to-day. Faith, 'tis shaving-day, and I have much to do. When Stella says
her pen was bewitched, it was only because there was a hair in it. You
know, the fellow they call God-help-it had the same thoughts of his
wife, and for the same reason. I think this is very well observed, and I
unfolded the letter to