lood, with a bruise he got
before he left England; but, I believe, an Italian lady he has
brought over is the cause that his illness returns. You know old Lady
Bellasis(22) is dead at last? She has left Lord Berkeley of Stratton(23)
one of her executors, and it will be of great advantage to him; they say
above ten thousand pounds. I stayed with Lord Treasurer upon business,
after the company was gone; but I dare not tell you upon what. My
letters would be good memoirs, if I durst venture to say a thousand
things that pass; but I hear so much of letters opening at your
post-office that I am fearful, etc., and so good-nite, sollahs, rove
Pdfr, MD.

15. Lord Treasurer engaged me to dine with him again to-day, and I
had ready what he wanted; but he would not see it, but put me off till
to-morrow. The Queen goes to chapel now. She is carried in an open
chair, and will be well enough to go to Parliament on Tuesday, if
the Houses meet, which is not yet certain; neither, indeed, can the
Ministers themselves tell; for it depends on winds and weather, and
circumstances of negotiation. However, we go on as if it was certainly
to meet; and I am to be at Lord Treasurer's to-morrow, upon that
supposition, to settle some things relating that way. Ppt(24) may
understand me. The doctors tell me that if poor Colonel Disney does not
get some sleep to-night, he must die. What care you? Ah! but I do
care. He is one of our Society; a fellow of abundance of humour; an old
battered rake, but very honest, not an old man, but an old rake. It was
he that said of Jenny Kingdom,(25) the maid of honour, who is a little
old, that, since she could not get a husband, the Queen should give her
a brevet to act as a married woman. You don't understand this. They give
brevets to majors and captains to act as colonels in the army. Brevets
are commissions. Ask soldiers, dull sollahs. Nite MD.

16. I was at Lord Treasurer's before he came; and, as he entered, he
told me the Parliament was prorogued till Thursday se'nnight. They have
had some expresses, by which they count that the peace may be signed
by that time; at least, that France, Holland, and we, will sign some
articles, by which we shall engage to sign the peace when it is ready:
but Spain has no Minister there; for Monteleon, who is to be their
Ambassador at Utrecht, is not yet gone from hence; and till he is there,
the Spaniards can sign no peace: and (of) one thing take notice, that
a general peace can hardly be finished these two months, so as to be
proclaimed here; for, after signing, it must be ratified; that is,
confirmed by the several princes at their Courts, which to Spain will
cost a month; for we must have notice that it is ratified in all Courts
before we can proclaim it. So be not in too much haste. Nite MD.

17. The Irish folks were disappointed that the Parliament did not meet
to-day, because it was St. Patrick's Day; and the Mall was so full of
crosses that I thought all the world was Irish. Miss Ashe is almost
quite well, and I see the Bishop, but shall not yet go to his house. I
dined again with Lord Treasurer; but the Parliament being prorogued, I
must keep what I have till next week: for I believe he will not see it
till just the evening before the session. He has engaged me to dine with
him again to-morrow, though I did all I could to put it off; but I don't
care to disoblige him. Nite dee sollahs 'tis late. Nite MD.

18. I have now dined six days successively with Lord Treasurer; but
to-night I stole away while he was talking with somebody else, and so am
at liberty to-morrow. There was a flying report of a general cessation
of arms: everybody had it at Court; but, I believe, there is nothing in
it. I asked a certain French Minister how things went. And he whispered
me in French, "Your Plenipotentiaries and ours play the fool." None
of us, indeed, approve of the conduct of either at this time; but Lord
Treasurer was in full good-humour for all that. He had invited a good
many of his relations; and, of a dozen at table, they were all of the
Harley family but myself. Disney is recovering, though you don't care
a straw. Dilly murders us with his IF puns. You know them.... (26) Nite
MD.

19. The Bishop of Clogher has made an IF pun that he is mighty proud of,
and designs to send it over to his brother Tom. But Sir Andrew Fountaine
has wrote to Tom Ashe last post, and told him the pun, and desired him
to send it over to the Bishop as his own; and, if it succeeds, 'twill
be a pure bite. The Bishop will tell it us as a wonder that he and his
brother should jump so exactly. I'll tell you the pun:--If there was a
hackney coach at Mr. Pooley's(27) door, what town in Egypt would it be?
Why, it would be Hecatompolis; Hack at Tom Pooley's. "Sillly," says Ppt.
I dined with a private friend to-day; for our Society, I told you, meet
but once a fortnight. I have not seen Fanny Manley yet; I can't help it.
Lady Orkney is come to town: why, she was at her country house; hat(28)
care you? Nite darling (?) dee MD.

20. Dilly read me a letter to-day from Ppt. She seems to have scratched
her head when she 