s of Dean Swift, 1899, p.85).

Letter 2.

1. In some MS. Accounts of Swift's, in the Forster Collection at South
Kensington there is the following entry:--"Set out for England Aug. 31st
on Thursday, 10 at night; landed at Parkgate Friday 1st at noon.
Sept. 1, 1710, came to London. Thursday at noon, Sept. 7th, with Lord
Mountjoy, etc. Mem.: Lord Mountjoy bore my expenses from Chester to
London."

2. In a letter to Archbishop King of the same date Swift says he
was "equally caressed by both parties; by one as a sort of bough for
drowning men to lay hold of, and by the other as one discontented with
the late men in power."

3. The Earl of Godolphin, who was severely satirised by Swift in his Sid
Hamet's Rod, 1710. He had been ordered to break his staff as Treasurer
on August 8. Swift told Archbishop King that Godolphin was "altogether
short, dry, and morose."

4. Martha, widow of Sir Thomas Giffard, Bart., of County Kildare, the
favourite sister of Sir William Temple, had been described by Swift in
early pindaric verses as "wise and great." Afterwards he was to call her
"an old beast" (Journal, Nov. 11, 1710). Their quarrel arose, towards
the close of 1709, out of a difference with regard to the publication
of Sir William Temple's Works. On the appearance of vol. v. Lady
Giffard charged Swift with publishing portions of the writings from
an unfaithful copy in lieu of the originals in his possession, and in
particular with printing laudatory notices of Godolphin and Sunderland
which Temple intended to omit, and with omitting an unfavourable remark
on Sunderland which Temple intended to print. Swift replied that the
corrections were all made by Temple himself.

5. Lord Wharton's second wife, Lucy, daughter of Lord Lisburn. She
died in 1716, a few months after her husband. See Lady M. W. Montagu's
Letters.

6. Mrs. Bridget Johnson, who married, as her second husband, Ralph
Mose or Moss, of Farnham, an agent for Sir William Temple's estate,
was waiting-woman or companion to Lady Giffard. In her will (1722) Lady
Giffard left Mrs. Moss 20 pounds, "with my silver cup and cover." Mrs.
Moss died in 1745, when letters of administration were granted to a
creditor of the deceased.

7. Dr. William King (1610-1729), a Whig and High Churchman, had more
than one difference with Swift during the twenty years following Swift's
first visit to London in connection with the First-Fruits question.

8. Swift's benefice, in the diocese of Meath, two miles from Trim.

9. Steele, who had been issuing the Tatler thrice weekly since April.
He lost the Gazetteership in October.

10. James, second Duke of Ormond (1665-1745) was appointed Lord
Lieutenant on the 26th of October. In the following year he became
Captain-General and Commander-in-Chief. He was impeached of high treason
and attainted in 1715; and he died in exile.

11. "Presto," substituted by the original editor for "Pdfr," was
suggested by a passage in the Journal for Aug. 2, 1711, where Swift says
that the Duchess of Shrewsbury "could not say my name in English, but
said Dr. Presto, which is Italian for Swift."

12. Charles Jervas, the popular portrait-painter, has left two portraits
of Swift, one of which is in the National Portrait Gallery, and the
other in the Bodleian Library.

13. Sir William Temple's nephew, and son of Sir John Temple (died
1704), Solicitor and Attorney-General, and Speaker of the Irish House of
Commons. "Jack" Temple acquired the estate of Moor Park, Surrey, by his
marriage with Elizabeth, granddaughter of Sir William Temple, and elder
daughter of John Temple, who committed suicide in 1689. As late as 1706
Swift received an invitation to visit Moor Park.

14. Dr. Benjamin Pratt, Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, was
appointed Dean of Down in 1717. Swift calls him "a person of wit and
learning," and "a gentleman of good birth and fortune,... very much
esteemed among us" (Short Character of Thomas, Earl of Wharton). On his
death in 1721 Swift wrote, "He was one of the oldest acquaintance I had,
and the last that I expected to die. He has left a young widow, in very
good circumstances. He had schemes of long life.... What a ridiculous
thing is man!" (Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, 1899, p. 106).

15. A Westmeath landlord, whom Swift met from time to time in London.
The Leighs were well acquainted with Esther Johnson.

16. Dr. Enoch Sterne, appointed Dean of St. Patrick's, Dublin, in 1704.
Swift was his successor in the deanery on Dr. Sterne's appointment
as Bishop of Dromore in 1713. In 1717 Sterne was translated to the
bishopric of Clogher. He spent much money on the cathedrals, etc., with
which he was connected.

17. Archdeacon Walls was rector of Castle Knock, near Trim. Esther
Johnson was a frequent visitor at his house in Queen Street, Dublin.

18. William Frankland, Comptroller of the Inland Office at the Post
Office, was the second son of the Postmaster-General, Sir Thomas
Frankland, Bart. Luttrell (vi. 333) records that in 1708 he was made
Treasurer of the Stamp Office, or, according to Chamberlayne's Mag.
Brit. Notitia for 1710, Receiver-General.

19. Thomas 