 lord, hath maliciously suggested, with design to blast
my credit, by charging me with so gross a mistake.


*****




A famous prediction of Merlin, the British wizard.

Written above a thousand years ago, and relating to the year 1709, with
explanatory notes.

Last year was publish'd a paper of predictions, pretended to be written
by one Isaac Bickerstaff, Esq; but the true design of it was to
ridicule the art of astrology, and expose its professors as ignorant
or impostors. Against this imputation, Dr. Partridge hath vindicated
himself in his almanack for that year.

For a farther vindication of this famous art, I have thought fit to
present the world with the following prophecy. The original is said to
be of the famous Merlin, who lived about a thousand years ago; and
the following translation is two hundred years old, for it seems to be
written near the end of Henry the Seventh's reign. I found it in an old
edition of Merlin's Prophecies, imprinted at London by John Hawkins
in the year 1530, page 39. I set it down word for word in the old
orthography, and shall take leave to subjoin a few explanatory notes.

          Seven and Ten addyd to Nyne,
          Of Fraunce her Woe this is the Sygne,
          Tamys Rivere twys y-frozen,
          Walke sans wetyng Shoes ne Hozen.
          Then comyth foorthe, ich understonde,
          From Town of Stoffe to farryn Londe,
          An herdye Chyftan, woe the Morne
          To Fraunce, that evere he was born.
          Than shall the fyshe beweyle his Bosse;
          Nor shall grin Berrys make up the Losse.
          Yonge Symnele shall again miscarrye:
          And Norways Pryd again shall marrye.
          And from the tree where Blosums feele,
          Ripe Fruit shall come, and all is wele,
          Reaums shall daunce Honde in Honde,
          And it shall be merrye in old Inglonde,
          Then old Inglonde shall be no more,
          And no man shall be sorre therefore.
          Geryon shall have three Hedes agayne,
          Till Hapsburge makyth them but twayne.

Explanatory notes.

Seven and Ten. This line describes the year when these events shall
happen. Seven and ten makes seventeen, which I explain seventeen
hundred, and this number added to nine, makes the year we are now in;
for it must be understood of the natural year, which begins the first of
January.

Tamys Rivere twys, etc. The River Thames, frozen twice in one year, so
as men to walk on it, is a very signal accident, which perhaps hath not
fallen out for several hundred years before, and is the reason why some
astrologers have thought that this prophecy could never be fulfilled,
because they imagine such a thing would never happen in our climate.

From Town of Stoffe, etc. This is a plain designation of the Duke of
Marlborough: One kind of stuff used to fatten land is called marle,
and every body knows that borough is a name for a town; and this way
of expression is after the usual dark manner of old astrological
predictions.

Then shall the Fyshe, etc. By the fish, is understood the Dauphin of
France, as their kings eldest sons are called: 'Tis here said, he shall
lament the loss of the Duke of Burgundy, called the Bosse, which is an
old English word for hump-shoulder, or crook-back, as that Duke is known
to be; and the prophecy seems to mean, that he should be overcome or
slain. By the green berrys, in the next line, is meant the young Duke
of Berry, the Dauphin's third son, who shall not have valour or fortune
enough to supply the loss of his eldest brother.

Yonge Symnele, etc. By Symnele is meant the pretended Prince of Wales,
who, if he offers to attempt anything against England, shall miscarry as
he did before. Lambert Symnele is the name of a young man, noted in our
histories for personating the son (as I remember) of Edward the fourth.

And Norway's Pryd, etc. I cannot guess who is meant by Norway's Pride,
perhaps the reader may, as well as the sense of the two following lines.

Reaums shall, etc. Reums, or, as the word is now, realms, is the old
name for kingdoms: And this is a very plain prediction of our happy
Union, with the felicities that shall attend it. It is added that Old
England shall be no more, and yet no man shall be sorry for it. And
indeed, properly speaking, England is now no more, for the whole island
is one Kingdom, under the name of Britain.

Geryon shall, etc. This prediction, tho' somewhat obscure, is
wonderfully adapt. Geryon is said to have been a king of Spain, whom
Hercules slew. It was a fiction of the poets, that he had three heads,
which the author says he shall have again: That is, Spain shall have
three kings; which is now wonderfully verified; for besides the King of
Portugal, which properly is part of Spain, there are now two rivals for
Spain, Charles and Philip: But Charles being descended fro the Count of
Hapsburgh, founder of the Austrian family, shall soon make those heads
but two; by overturning Philip, and driving him out of Spain.

Some of these predictions are already fulfilled; and it is highly
probable the rest may be in due time; and, I think,