 company as
I do male; I see all the drabs of quality at this end of the town
with them." In the autumn Swift seems to have thought that Vanessa was
keeping company with a certain Hatton, but Mrs. Long--possibly meaning
to give him a warning hint--remarked that if this were so "she is not
the girl I took her for; but to me she seems melancholy."

In 1712 occasional letters took the place of the daily journal to "MD,"
but there is no change in the affectionate style in which Swift wrote.
In the spring he had a long illness, which affected him, indeed,
throughout the year. Other reasons which he gives for the falling off in
his correspondence are his numerous business engagements, and the hope
of being able to send some good news of an appointment for himself.
There is only one letter to Stella between July 19 and September 15,
and Dr. Birkbeck Hill argues that the poem "Cadenus and Vanessa" was
composed at that time.(6) If this be so, it must have been altered next
year, because it was not until 1713 that Swift was made a Dean. Writing
on April 19, 1726, Swift said that the poem "was written at Windsor near
fourteen years ago, and dated: it was a task performed on a frolic among
some ladies, and she it was addressed to died some time ago in Dublin,
and on her death the copy shewn by her executor." Several copies were in
circulation, and he was indifferent what was done with it; it was "only
a cavalier business," and if those who would not give allowances were
malicious, it was only what he had long expected.

From this letter it would appear that this remarkable poem was written
in the summer of 1712; whereas the title-page of the pamphlet says it
was "written at Windsor, 1713." Swift visited Windsor in both years,
but he had more leisure in 1712, and we know that Vanessa was also at
Windsor in that year. In that year, too, he was forty-four, the
age mentioned in the poem. Neither Swift nor Vanessa forgot this
intercourse: years afterwards Swift wrote to her, "Go over the scenes
of Windsor.... Cad thinks often of these"; and again, "Remember the
indisposition at Windsor." We know that this poem was revised in 1719,
when in all probability Swift added the lines to which most exception
can be taken. Cadenus was to be Vanessa's instructor:--

     "His conduct might have made him styled
      A father, and the nymph his child."

He had "grown old in politics and wit," and "in every scene had kept
his heart," so that he now "understood not what was love." But he
had written much, and Vanessa admired his wit. Cadenus found that her
thoughts wandered--

     "Though she seemed to listen more
      To all he spoke than e'er before."

When she confessed her love, he was filled with "shame, disappointment,
guilt, surprise." He had aimed only at cultivating the mind, and had
hardly known whether she was young or old. But he was flattered, and
though he could not give her love, he offered her friendship, "with
gratitude, respect, esteem." Vanessa took him at his word, and said she
would now be tutor, though he was not apt to learn:--

     "But what success Vanessa met
      Is to the world a secret yet.
      Whether the nymph to please her swain
      Talks in a high romantic strain;
      Or whether he at last descends
      To act with less seraphic ends;
      Or, to compound the business, whether
      They temper love and books together,
      Must never to mankind be told,
      Nor shall the conscious Muse unfold."

Such is the poem as we now have it, written, it must be remembered, for
Vanessa's private perusal. It is to be regretted, for her own sake, that
she did not destroy it.

Swift received the reward of his services to the Government--the
Deanery of St. Patrick's, Dublin--in April 1713. Disappointed at what he
regarded as exile, he left London in June. Vanessa immediately began to
send him letters which brought home to him the extent of her passion;
and she hinted at jealousy in the words, "If you are very happy, it is
ill-natured of you not to tell me so, except 'tis what is inconsistent
with my own." In his reply Swift dwelt upon the dreariness of his
surroundings at Laracor, and reminded her that he had said he would
endeavour to forget everything in England, and would write as seldom as
he could.

Swift was back again in the political strife in London in September,
taking Oxford's part in the quarrel between that statesman and
Bolingbroke. On the fall of the Tories at the death of Queen Anne, he
saw that all was over, and retired to Ireland, not to return again
for twelve years. In the meantime the intimacy with Vanessa had been
renewed. Her mother had died, leaving debts, and she pressed Swift for
advice in the management of her affairs. When she suggested coming to
Ireland, where she had property, he told her that if she took this
step he would "see her very seldom." However, she took up her abode at
Celbridge, only a few miles from Dublin. Swift gave her many cautions,
out of "the perfect esteem and friendship" he felt for her, but he often
visited her. She was dissatisfied, however, begging him to speak kindly,
