nswered them with great complaisance. Addison began Lord Somers's
health, which went about; but I bid him not name Lord Wharton's, for I
would not pledge it; and I told Lord Bolingbroke frankly that Addison
loved Lord Wharton as little as I did: so we laughed, etc. Well, but
you are glad of the peace, you Ppt the Trimmer, are not you? As for DD
I don't doubt her. Why, now, if I did not think Ppt had been a violent
Tory, and DD the greater Whig of the two! 'Tis late. Nite MD.

4. This Passion Week, people are so demure, especially this last day,
that I told Dilly, who called here, that I would dine with him, and so I
did, faith; and had a small shoulder of mutton of my own bespeaking. It
rained all day. I came home at seven, and have never stirred out, but
have been reading Sacheverell's long dull sermon, which he sent me. It
is the first sermon since his suspension is expired; but not a word in
it upon the occasion, except two or three remote hints. The Bishop of
Clogher has been sadly bit by Tom Ashe, who sent him a pun, which the
Bishop had made, and designed to send to him, but delayed it; and Lord
Pembroke and I made Sir Andrew Fountaine write it to Tom. I believe
I told you of it in my last; it succeeded right, and the Bishop was
wondering to Lord Pembroke how he and his brother could hit on the same
thing. I'll go to bed soon, for I must be at church by eight to-morrow,
Easter Day. Nite dee MD.

5. Warburton(30) wrote to me two letters about a living of one Foulkes,
who is lately dead in the county of Meath. My answer is, that before I
received the first letter, General Gorges(31) had recommended a friend
of his to the Duke of Ormond, which was the first time I heard of its
vacancy, and it was the Provost told me of it. I believe verily that
Foulkes was not dead when Gorges recommended the other: for Warburton's
last letter said that Foulkes was dead the day before the date.--This
has prevented me from serving Warburton, as I would have done, if I had
received early notice enough. Pray say or write this to Warburton, to
justify me to him. I was at church at eight this morning, and dressed
and shaved after I came back, but was too late at Court; and Lord
Abingdon(32) was like to have snapped me for dinner, and I believe will
fall out with me for refusing him; but I hate dining with them, and I
dined with a private friend, and took two or three good walks; for it
was a very fine day, the first we have had a great while. Remember, was
Easter Day a fine day with you? I have sat with Lady Worsley till now.
Nite dee MD.

6. I was this morning at ten at the rehearsal of Mr. Addison's play,
called Cato, which is to be acted on Friday. There were not above half a
score of us to see it. We stood on the stage, and it was foolish enough
to see the actors prompted every moment, and the poet directing them;
and the drab that acts Cato's daughter,(33) out in the midst of a
passionate part, and then calling out, "What's next?" The Bishop of
Clogher was there too; but he stood privately in a gallery. I went to
dine with Lord Treasurer, but he was gone to Wimbledon, his daughter
Caermarthen's(34) country seat, seven miles off. So I went back,
and dined privately with Mr. Addison, whom I had left to go to Lord
Treasurer. I keep fires yet; I am very extravagant. I sat this evening
with Sir A. Fountaine, and we amused ourselves with making IFS for
Dilly. It is rainy weather again; nevle saw ze rike.(35) This letter
shall go to-morrow; remember, ung oomens, it is seven weeks since oor
last, and I allow oo but five weeks; but oo have been galloping into
the country to Swanton's.(36) O pray tell Swanton I had his letter, but
cannot contrive how to serve him. If a Governor were to go over, I would
recommend him as far as lay in my power, but I can do no more: and you
know all employments in Ireland, at least almost all, are engaged
in reversions. If I were on the spot, and had credit with a Lord
Lieutenant, I would very heartily recommend him; but employments here
are no more in my power than the monarchy itself. Nite, dee MD.

7. Morning. I have had a visitor here, that has taken up my time. I have
not been abroad, oo may be sure; so I can say nothing to-day, but that
I rove MD bettle zan ever, if possibbere. I will put this in the
post-office; so I say no more. I write by this post to the Dean, but it
is not above two lines; and one enclosed to you, but that enclosed to
you is not above three lines; and then one enclosed to the Dean, which
he must not have but upon condition of burning it immediately after
reading, and that before your eyes; for there are some things in it I
would not have liable to accident. You shall only know in general that
it is an account of what I have done to serve him in his pretensions on
these vacancies, etc. But he must not know that you know so much.(37)
Does this perplex you? Hat care I? But rove Pdfr, saucy Pdfr. Farewell,
deelest MD MD MD FW FW FW,... ME, MD Lele.




LETTER 63.(1)

LONDON, April 7, 1713.

I fancy I marked my last, which I sent this day, wrong; only 61, and it
ought to be 62. I dined with Lor