he cause
from time to time, and in ten, twenty, or thirty years, come to an issue.

“It is likewise to be observed, that this society has a peculiar cant and
jargon of their own, that no other mortal can understand, and wherein all
their laws are written, which they take special care to multiply; whereby
they have wholly confounded the very essence of truth and falsehood, of
right and wrong; so that it will take thirty years to decide, whether the
field left me by my ancestors for six generations belongs to me, or to a
stranger three hundred miles off.

“In the trial of persons accused for crimes against the state, the method
is much more short and commendable: the judge first sends to sound the
disposition of those in power, after which he can easily hang or save a
criminal, strictly preserving all due forms of law.”

Here my master interposing, said, “it was a pity, that creatures endowed
with such prodigious abilities of mind, as these lawyers, by the
description I gave of them, must certainly be, were not rather encouraged
to be instructors of others in wisdom and knowledge.”  In answer to which
I assured his honour, “that in all points out of their own trade, they
were usually the most ignorant and stupid generation among us, the most
despicable in common conversation, avowed enemies to all knowledge and
learning, and equally disposed to pervert the general reason of mankind
in every other subject of discourse as in that of their own profession.”



CHAPTER VI.


A continuation of the state of England under Queen Anne.  The character
of a first minister of state in European courts.

My master was yet wholly at a loss to understand what motives could
incite this race of lawyers to perplex, disquiet, and weary themselves,
and engage in a confederacy of injustice, merely for the sake of injuring
their fellow-animals; neither could he comprehend what I meant in saying,
they did it for hire.  Whereupon I was at much pains to describe to him
the use of money, the materials it was made of, and the value of the
metals; “that when a _Yahoo_ had got a great store of this precious
substance, he was able to purchase whatever he had a mind to; the finest
clothing, the noblest houses, great tracts of land, the most costly meats
and drinks, and have his choice of the most beautiful females.  Therefore
since money alone was able to perform all these feats, our _Yahoos_
thought they could never have enough of it to spend, or to save, as they
found themselves inclined, from their natural bent either to profusion or
avarice; that the rich man enjoyed the fruit of the poor man’s labour,
and the latter were a thousand to one in proportion to the former; that
the bulk of our people were forced to live miserably, by labouring every
day for small wages, to make a few live plentifully.”

I enlarged myself much on these, and many other particulars to the same
purpose; but his honour was still to seek; for he went upon a
supposition, that all animals had a title to their share in the
productions of the earth, and especially those who presided over the
rest.  Therefore he desired I would let him know, “what these costly
meats were, and how any of us happened to want them?”  Whereupon I
enumerated as many sorts as came into my head, with the various methods
of dressing them, which could not be done without sending vessels by sea
to every part of the world, as well for liquors to drink as for sauces
and innumerable other conveniences.  I assured him “that this whole globe
of earth must be at least three times gone round before one of our better
female _Yahoos_ could get her breakfast, or a cup to put it in.”  He said
“that must needs be a miserable country which cannot furnish food for its
own inhabitants.  But what he chiefly wondered at was, how such vast
tracts of ground as I described should be wholly without fresh water, and
the people put to the necessity of sending over the sea for drink.”  I
replied “that England (the dear place of my nativity) was computed to
produce three times the quantity of food more than its inhabitants are
able to consume, as well as liquors extracted from grain, or pressed out
of the fruit of certain trees, which made excellent drink, and the same
proportion in every other convenience of life.  But, in order to feed the
luxury and intemperance of the males, and the vanity of the females, we
sent away the greatest part of our necessary things to other countries,
whence, in return, we brought the materials of diseases, folly, and vice,
to spend among ourselves.  Hence it follows of necessity, that vast
numbers of our people are compelled to seek their livelihood by begging,
robbing, stealing, cheating, pimping, flattering, suborning, forswearing,
forging, gaming, lying, fawning, hectoring, voting, scribbling,
star-gazing, poisoning, whoring, canting, libelling, freethinking, and
the like occupations:” every one of which terms I was at much pains to
make him understand.

“That wine was not imported among us from foreign countries to supply the
want of water or other drinks, but because it was a sort of liquid which
made