owever, there came alarming news, when Swift was himself suffering from
giddiness and deafness. To Dr. Sheridan he wrote that the last act of
life was always a tragedy at best: "it is a bitter aggravation to have
one's best friend go before one." Life was indifferent to him; if he
recovered from his disorder it would only be to feel the loss of "that
person for whose sake only life was worth preserving. I brought both
those friends over that we might be happy together as long as God should
please; the knot is broken, and the remaining person you know has ill
answered the end; and the other, who is now to be lost, is all that was
valuable." To Worrall he again wrote (in Latin) that Stella ought not
to be lodged at the Deanery; he had enemies who would place a bad
interpretation upon it if she died there.

Swift left London for Dublin in September; he was detained some days at
Holyhead by stress of weather, and in the private journal which he kept
during that time he speaks of the suspense he was in about his "dearest
friend."(11) In December Stella made a will--signed "Esther Johnson,
spinster"--disposing of her property in the manner Swift had suggested.
Her allusions to Swift are incompatible with any such feeling of
resentment as is suggested by Sheridan. She died on January 28, 1728.
Swift could not bear to be present, but on the night of her death he
began to write his very interesting Character of Mrs. Johnson, from
which passages have already been quoted. He there calls her "the truest,
most virtuous and valuable friend that I, or perhaps any other person,
was ever blessed with." Combined with excellent gifts of the mind, "she
had a gracefulness, somewhat more than human, in every motion, word, and
action. Never was so happy a conjunction of civility, freedom, easiness,
and sincerity." Everyone treated her with marked respect, yet everyone
was at ease in her society. She preserved her wit, judgment, and
vivacity to the last, but often complained of her memory. She chose
men rather than women for her companions, "the usual topic of ladies'
discourse being such as she had little knowledge of and less relish."
"Honour, truth, liberality, good nature, and modesty were the virtues
she chiefly possessed, and most valued in her acquaintance." In some
Prayers used by Swift during her last sickness, he begged for pity for
"the mournful friends of Thy distressed servant, who sink under the
weight of her present condition, and the fear of losing the most
valuable of our friends." He was too ill to be present at the funeral at
St. Patrick's. Afterwards, we are told, a lock of her hair was found in
his desk, wrapped in a paper bearing the words, "Only a woman's hair."

Swift continued to produce pamphlets manifesting growing misanthropy,
though he showed many kindnesses to people who stood in need of help. He
seems to have given Mrs. Dingley fifty guineas a year, pretending that
it came from a fund for which he was trustee. The mental decay which he
had always feared--"I shall be like that tree," he once said, "I shall
die at the top"--became marked about 1738. Paralysis was followed by
aphasia, and after acute pain, followed by a long period of apathy,
death relieved him in October 1745. He was buried by Stella's side, in
accordance with his wishes. The bulk of his fortune was left to found a
hospital for idiots and lunatics.

There has been much rather fruitless discussion respecting the reason or
reasons why Swift did not marry Stella; for if there was any marriage,
it was nothing more than a form. Some have supposed that Swift resolved
to remain unmarried because the insanity of an uncle and the fits and
giddiness to which he was always subject led him to fear insanity in his
own case. Others, looking rather to physical causes, have dwelt upon his
coldness of temperament and indisposition to love; upon the repugnance
he often showed towards marriage, and the tone of some of the verses
on the subject written in his later years. Others, again, have found a
cause in his parsimonious habits, in his dread of poverty, the effects
of which he had himself felt, and in the smallness of his income, at
least until he was middle-aged.(12) It may well be that one or all of
these things influenced Swift's action. We cannot say more. He himself,
as we have seen, said, as early as 1704, that if his humour and means
had permitted him to think of marriage, his choice would have been
Stella. Perhaps, however, there is not much mystery in the matter. Swift
seems to have been wanting in passion; probably he was satisfied with
the affection which Stella gave him, and did not wish for more. Such an
attachment as his usually results in marriage, but not necessarily.
It is not sufficiently remembered that the affection began in Stella's
childhood. They were "perfect friends" for nearly forty years, and her
advancing years in no way lessened his love, which was independent
of beauty. Whether Stella was satisfied, who shall say? Mrs. Oliphant
thought that few women would be disposed to pity Stella, or think her
life one of blight or injury. Mr. Leslie St