hs ago, and a hundred times since: the Secretary always
dreaded it. I told Lord Treasurer I should have the advantage of him;
for he would lose his head, and I should only be hanged, and so carry my
body entire to the grave.

9. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary: we are both of opinion that
the Queen is false. I told him what I heard, and he confirmed it by
other circumstances. I then went to my friend Lewis, who had sent to see
me. He talks of nothing but retiring to his estate in Wales. He gave me
reasons to believe the whole matter is settled between the Queen and the
Whigs; he hears that Lord Somers is to be Treasurer, and believes that,
sooner than turn out the Duchess of Somerset, she will dissolve the
Parliament, and get a Whiggish one, which may be done by managing
elections. Things are now in the crisis, and a day or two will
determine. I have desired him to engage Lord Treasurer that as soon as
he finds the change is resolved on, he will send me abroad as Queen's
Secretary somewhere or other, where I may remain till the new Ministers
recall me; and then I will be sick for five or six months, till the
storm has spent itself. I hope he will grant me this; for I should
hardly trust myself to the mercy of my enemies while their anger is
fresh. I dined to-day with the Secretary, who affects mirth, and seems
to hope all will yet be well. I took him aside after dinner, told him
how I had served them, and had asked no reward, but thought I might
ask security; and then desired the same thing of him, to send me abroad
before a change. He embraced me, and swore he would take the same care
of me as himself, etc., but bid me have courage, for that in two days my
Lord Treasurer's wisdom would appear greater than ever; that he suffered
all that had happened on purpose, and had taken measures to turn it to
advantage. I said, "God send it"; but I do not believe a syllable; and,
as far as I can judge, the game is lost. I shall know more soon, and my
letters will at least be a good history to show you the steps of this
change.

10. I was this morning with Lewis, who thinks they will let the
Parliament sit till they have given the money, and then dissolve them in
spring, and break the Ministry. He spoke to Lord Treasurer about what
I desired him. My lord desired him with great earnestness to assure me
that all would be well, and that I should fear nothing. I dined in the
City with a friend. This day the Commons went to the Queen with their
address, and all the Lords who were for the peace went with them, to
show their zeal. I have now some further conviction that the Queen is
false, and it begins to be known.

11. I went between two and three to see Mrs. Masham; while I was there
she went to her bed-chamber to try a petticoat. Lord Treasurer came in
to see her, and seeing me in the outer room, fell a rallying me: says
he, "You had better keep company with me, than with such a fellow as
Lewis, who has not the soul of a chicken, nor the heart of a mite." Then
he went in to Mrs. Masham, and as he came back desired her leave to let
me go home with him to dinner. He asked whether I was not afraid to be
seen with him. I said I never valued my Lord Treasurer in my life, and
therefore should have always the same esteem for Mr. Harley and Lord
Oxford. He seemed to talk confidently, as if he reckoned that all this
would turn to advantage. I could not forbear hinting that he was not
sure of the Queen, and that those scoundrel, starving lords would never
have dared to vote against the Court, if Somerset had not assured them
that it would please the Queen. He said that was true, and Somerset did
so. I stayed till six; then De Buys, the Dutch Envoy, came to him, and
I left him. Prior was with us a while after dinner. I see him and all of
them cast down, though they make the best of it.

12. Ford is come to town; I saw him last night: he is in no fear, but
sanguine, although I have told him the state of things. This change so
resembles the last, that I wonder they do not observe it. The Secretary
sent for me yesterday to dine with him, but I was abroad; I hope he had
something to say to me. This is morning, and I write in bed. I am going
to the Duke of Ormond, whom I have not yet seen. Morrow, sirrahs.--At
night. I was to see the Duke of Ormond this morning: he asked me two
or three questions after his civil way, and they related to Ireland: at
last I told him that, from the time I had seen him, I never once thought
of Irish affairs. He whispered me that he hoped I had done some good
things here: I said, if everybody else had done half as much, we should
not be as we are: then we went aside, and talked over affairs. I told
him how all things stood, and advised him what was to be done. I
then went and sat an hour with the Duchess; then as long with Lady
Oglethorpe,(17) who is so cunning a devil that I believe she could yet
find a remedy, if they would take her advice. I dined with a friend at
Court.

13. I was this morning with the Secretary: he will needs pretend to talk
as if things would be well: "Will you believe it," said he, "if you see
the