th her two eggs, etc. My
"Shower" admired with you; why, the Bishop of Clogher says, he has seen
something of mine of the same sort, better than the "Shower." I suppose
he means "The Morning";(13) but it is not half so good. I want your
judgment of things, and not your country's. How does MD like it? and do
they taste it ALL? etc. I am glad Dean Bolton(14) has paid the twenty
pounds. Why should not I chide the Bishop of Clogher for writing to the
Archbishop of Cashel,(15) without sending the letter first to me? It
does not signify a ----; for he has no credit at Court. Stuff--they are
all puppies. I will break your head in good earnest, young woman, for
your nasty jest about Mrs. Barton.(16) Unlucky sluttikin, what a word is
there! Faith, I was thinking yesterday, when I was with her, whether she
could break them or no, and it quite spoilt my imagination. "Mrs. Walls,
does Stella win as she pretends?" "No indeed, Doctor; she loses always,
and will play so VENTERSOMELY, how can she win?" See here now; an't
you an impudent lying slut? Do, open Domville's letter; what does it
signify, if you have a mind? Yes, faith, you write smartly with your
eyes shut; all was well but the _n_. See how I can do it; MADAM STELLA,
YOUR HUMBLE SERVANT.(17) O, but one may look whether one goes crooked or
no, and so write on. I will tell you what you may do; you may write with
your eyes half shut, just as when one is going to sleep: I have done
so for two or three lines now; it is but just seeing enough to go
straight.--Now, Madam Dingley, I think I bid you tell Mr. Walls that, in
case there be occasion, I will serve his friend as far as I can; but I
hope there will be none. Yet I believe you will have a new Parliament;
but I care not whether you have or no a better. You are mistaken in all
your conjectures about the Tatlers. I have given him one or two
hints, and you have heard me talk about the Shilling.(18) Faith, these
answering letters are very long ones: you have taken up almost the room
of a week in journals; and I will tell you what, I saw fellows wearing
crosses to-day,(19) and I wondered what was the matter; but just this
minute I recollect it is little Presto's birthday; and I was resolved
these three days to remember it when it came, but could not. Pray, drink
my health to-day at dinner; do, you rogues. Do you like "Sid Hamet's
Rod"? Do you understand it all? Well, now at last I have done with your
letter, and so I will lay me down to sleep, and about, fair maids; and I
hope merry maids all.

Dec. 1. Morning. I wish Smyth were hanged. I was dreaming the most
melancholy things in the world of poor Stella, and was grieving and
crying all night.--Pshah, it is foolish: I will rise and divert myself;
so good-morrow; and God of His infinite mercy keep and protect you!
The Bishop of Clogher's letter is dated Nov. 21. He says you thought of
going with him to Clogher. I am heartily glad of it, and wish you would
ride there, and Dingley go in a coach. I have had no fit since my first,
although sometimes my head is not quite in good order.--At night. I was
this morning to visit Mr. Pratt, who is come over with poor, sick Lord
Shelburne: they made me dine with them; and there I stayed, like a
booby, till eight, looking over them at ombre, and then came home. Lord
Shelburne's giddiness is turned into a colic, and he looks miserably.

2. Steele, the rogue, has done the imprudentest thing in the world:
he said something in a Tatler,(20) that we ought to use the word Great
Britain, and not England, in common conversation, as, "The finest lady
in Great Britain," etc. Upon this, Rowe, Prior, and I sent him a letter,
turning this into ridicule. He has to-day printed the letter,(21) and
signed it J.S., M.P., and N.R., the first letters of all our names.
Congreve told me to-day, he smoked it immediately. Congreve and I, and
Sir Charles Wager, dined to-day at Delaval's, the Portugal Envoy; and I
stayed there till eight, and came home, and am now writing to you before
I do business, because that dog Patrick is not at home, and the fire
is not made, and I am not in my gear. Pox take him!--I was looking
by chance at the top of this side, and find I make plaguy mistakes
in words; so that you must fence against that as well as bad writing.
Faith, I can't nor won't read what I have written. (Pox of this puppy!)
Well, I'll leave you till I am got to bed, and then I will say a word or
two.--Well, 'tis now almost twelve, and I have been busy ever since,
by a fire too (I have my coals by half a bushel at a time, I'll assure
you), and now I am got to bed. Well, and what have you to say to Presto
now he is abed? Come now, let us hear your speeches. No, 'tis a lie; I
an't sleepy yet. Let us sit up a little longer, and talk. Well, where
have you been to-day, that you are but just this minute come home in a
coach? What have you lost? Pay the coachman, Stella. No, faith, not I,
he'll grumble.--What new acquaintance have you got? come, let us hear.
I have made Delaval promise to send me some Brazil tobacco from
Portugal for you, Madam Dingley. I hope you will have your choc