 had no conception.  The sorrel
nag offered me a root, which he held (after their manner, as we shall
describe in its proper place) between his hoof and pastern; I took it in
my hand, and, having smelt it, returned it to him again as civilly as I
could.  He brought out of the _Yahoos_’ kennel a piece of ass’s flesh;
but it smelt so offensively that I turned from it with loathing: he then
threw it to the _Yahoo_, by whom it was greedily devoured.  He afterwards
showed me a wisp of hay, and a fetlock full of oats; but I shook my head,
to signify that neither of these were food for me.  And indeed I now
apprehended that I must absolutely starve, if I did not get to some of my
own species; for as to those filthy _Yahoos_, although there were few
greater lovers of mankind at that time than myself, yet I confess I never
saw any sensitive being so detestable on all accounts; and the more I
came near them the more hateful they grew, while I stayed in that
country.  This the master horse observed by my behaviour, and therefore
sent the _Yahoo_ back to his kennel.  He then put his fore-hoof to his
mouth, at which I was much surprised, although he did it with ease, and
with a motion that appeared perfectly natural, and made other signs, to
know what I would eat; but I could not return him such an answer as he
was able to apprehend; and if he had understood me, I did not see how it
was possible to contrive any way for finding myself nourishment.  While
we were thus engaged, I observed a cow passing by, whereupon I pointed to
her, and expressed a desire to go and milk her.  This had its effect; for
he led me back into the house, and ordered a mare-servant to open a room,
where a good store of milk lay in earthen and wooden vessels, after a
very orderly and cleanly manner.  She gave me a large bowlful, of which I
drank very heartily, and found myself well refreshed.

About noon, I saw coming towards the house a kind of vehicle drawn like a
sledge by four _Yahoos_.  There was in it an old steed, who seemed to be
of quality; he alighted with his hind-feet forward, having by accident
got a hurt in his left fore-foot.  He came to dine with our horse, who
received him with great civility.  They dined in the best room, and had
oats boiled in milk for the second course, which the old horse ate warm,
but the rest cold.  Their mangers were placed circular in the middle of
the room, and divided into several partitions, round which they sat on
their haunches, upon bosses of straw.  In the middle was a large rack,
with angles answering to every partition of the manger; so that each
horse and mare ate their own hay, and their own mash of oats and milk,
with much decency and regularity.  The behaviour of the young colt and
foal appeared very modest, and that of the master and mistress extremely
cheerful and complaisant to their guest.  The gray ordered me to stand by
him; and much discourse passed between him and his friend concerning me,
as I found by the stranger’s often looking on me, and the frequent
repetition of the word _Yahoo_.

I happened to wear my gloves, which the master gray observing, seemed
perplexed, discovering signs of wonder what I had done to my fore-feet.
He put his hoof three or four times to them, as if he would signify, that
I should reduce them to their former shape, which I presently did,
pulling off both my gloves, and putting them into my pocket.  This
occasioned farther talk; and I saw the company was pleased with my
behaviour, whereof I soon found the good effects.  I was ordered to speak
the few words I understood; and while they were at dinner, the master
taught me the names for oats, milk, fire, water, and some others, which I
could readily pronounce after him, having from my youth a great facility
in learning languages.

When dinner was done, the master horse took me aside, and by signs and
words made me understand the concern he was in that I had nothing to eat.
Oats in their tongue are called _hlunnh_.  This word I pronounced two or
three times; for although I had refused them at first, yet, upon second
thoughts, I considered that I could contrive to make of them a kind of
bread, which might be sufficient, with milk, to keep me alive, till I
could make my escape to some other country, and to creatures of my own
species.  The horse immediately ordered a white mare servant of his
family to bring me a good quantity of oats in a sort of wooden tray.
These I heated before the fire, as well as I could, and rubbed them till
the husks came off, which I made a shift to winnow from the grain.  I
ground and beat them between two stones; then took water, and made them
into a paste or cake, which I toasted at the fire and eat warm with milk.
It was at first a very insipid diet, though common enough in many parts
of Europe, but grew tolerable by time; and having been often reduced to
hard fare in my life, this was not the first experiment I had made how
easily nature is satisfied.  And I cannot but observe, that I never had
one hours sickness while I stayed in this island.  It is true, I
sometimes made a shift to catch a rabbit, o