ion;
upon which the audience will be affected with a red suffusion over their
countenance: And because a strong succession of the muscles of the belly
is necessary towards performing this great operation, both sexes will
be thrown into a profuse involuntary laughter. Then (to use the modest
terms of Anaximander) shall negative quantity be turn'd into positive,
etc. Time never beheld, nor will it ever assemble, such a number
of untouch'd virgins within those walls! but alas! such will be the
impatience and curiosity of people to act in their new capacity, that
many of them will be compleated men and women that very night. To
prevent the disorders that may happen upon this occasion, is the chief
design of this paper.

Gentlemen have begun already to make use of this conjunction to compass
their filthy purposes. They tell the ladies forsooth, that it is only
parting with a perishable commodity, hardly of so much value as a
callico under-petticoat; since, like its mistress, it will be useless in
the form it is now in. If the ladies have no regard to the dishonour and
immorality of the action, I desire they will consider, that nature who
never destroys her own productions, will exempt big-belly'd women till
the time of their lying-in; so that not to be transformed, will be the
same as to be pregnant. If they don't think it worth while to defend a
fortress that is to be demolish'd in a few days, let them reflect that
it will be a melancholy thing nine months hence, to be brought to bed of
a bastard; a posthumous bastard as it were, to which the quondam father
can be no more than a dry nurse.

This wonderful transformation is the instrument of nature, to balance
matters between the sexes. The cruelty of scornful mistresses shall be
return'd; the slighted maid shall grow into an imperious gallant, and
reward her undoer with a big belly, and a bastard.

It is hardly possible to imagine the revolutions that this wonderful
phaenomenon will occasion over the face of the earth. I long impatiently
to see the proceedings of the Parliament of Paris, as to the title
of succession to the crown, this being a case not provided for by the
salique law. There will be no preventing disorders amongst friars and
monks; for certainly vows of chastity do not bind but under the sex in
which they were made. The same will hold good with marriages, tho' I
think it will be a scandal amongst Protestants for husbands and wives
to part, since there remains still a possibility to perform the debitus
conjugale, by the husband being femme couverte. I submit it to the
judgment of the gentlemen of the long robe, whether this transformation
does not discharge all suits of rapes?

The Pope must undergo a new groping; but the false prophet Mahomet has
contriv'd matters well for his successors; for as the Grand Signior
has now a great many fine women, he will then have as many fine young
gentelmen, at his devotion.

These are surprizing scenes; but I beg leave to affirm, that the solemn
operations of nature are subjects of contemplation, not of ridicule.
Therefore I make it my earnest request to the merry fellows, and
giggling girls about town, that they would not put themselves in a high
twitter, when they go to visit a general lying-in of his first child;
his officers serving as midwives, nurses and rockers dispensing caudle;
or if they behold the reverend prelates dressing the heads and airing
the linnen at court, I beg they will remember that these offices must be
fill'd with people of the greatest regularity, and best characters. For
the same reason, I am sorry that a certain prelate, who notwithstanding
his confinement (in December 1723), still preserves his healthy,
chearful countenance, cannot come in time to be a nurse at court.

I likewise earnestly intreat the maids of honour, (then ensigns and
captains of the guard) that, at their first setting out, they have some
regard to their former station, and do not run wild through all the
infamous houses about town: That the present grooms of the bed-chamber
(then maids of honour) would not eat chalk and lime in their
green-sickness: And in general, that the men would remember they are
become retromingent, and not by inadvertency lift up against walls and
posts.

Petticoats will not be burdensome to the clergy; but balls and
assemblies will be indecent for some time.

As for you, coquettes, bawds, and chamber-maids, (the future ministers,
plenipotentiaries, and cabinet-counsellors to the princes of the earth,)
manage the great intrigues that will be committed to your charge, with
your usual secrecy and conduct; and the affairs of your masters will go
better than ever.

O ye exchange women! (our right worshipful representatives that are to
be) be not so griping in the sale of your ware as your predecessors,
but consider that the nation, like a spend-thrift heir, has run out:
Be likewise a little more continent in your tongues than you are at
present, else the length of debates will spoil your dinners.

You housewifely good women, who not preside over the confectionary,
(henceforth commissioners of the Treasury) be s