a is naturally a stout walker, and carries
herself firm; methinks I see her strut, and step clever over a kennel;
and Dingley would do well enough if her petticoats were pinned up; but
she is so embroiled, and so fearful, and then Stella scolds, and Dingley
stumbles, and is so daggled.(14) Have you got the whalebone petticoats
among you yet? I hate them; a woman here may hide a moderate gallant
under them. Pshaw, what's all this I'm saying? Methinks I am talking to
MD face to face.

11. Did I tell you that old Frowde,(15) the old fool, is selling his
estate at Pepperhara, and is skulking about the town nobody knows where?
and who do you think manages all this for him, but that rogue Child,(16)
the double squire of Farnham? I have put Mrs. Masham, the Queen's
favourite, upon buying it, but that is yet a great secret; and I have
employed Lady Oglethorpe to inquire about it. I was with Lady Oglethorpe
to-day, who is come to town for a week or two, and to-morrow I will see
to hunt out the old fool: he is utterly ruined, and at this present
in some blind alley with some dirty wench. He has two sons that must
starve, and he never gives them a farthing. If Mrs. Masham buys the
land, I will desire her to get the Queen to give some pension to the
old fool, to keep him from absolutely starving. What do you meddle with
other people's affairs for? says Stella. Oh, but Mr. Masham and his wife
are very urgent with me, since I first put them in the head of it.
I dined with Sir Matthew Dudley, who, I doubt, will soon lose his
employment.

12. Morning. I am going to hunt out old Frowde, and to do some business
in the City. I have not yet called to Patrick to know whether it be
fair.--It has been past dropping these two days. Rainy weather hurts my
pate and my purse. He tells me 'tis very windy, and begins to look dark;
woe be to my shillings! an old saying and a true,

     Few fillings,
     Many shillings.

If the day be dark, my purse will be light.

     To my enemies be this curse,
     A dark day and a light purse.

And so I'll rise, and go to my fire, for Patrick tells me I have a
fire; yet it is not shaving-day, nor is the weather cold; this is too
extravagant. What is become of Dilly? I suppose you have him with you.
Stella is just now showing a white leg, and putting it into the slipper.
Present my service to her, and tell her I am engaged to the Dean, and
desire she will come too: or, Dingley, can't you write a note? This is
Stella's morning dialogue, no, morning speech I mean.--Morrow, sirrahs,
and let me rise as well as you; but I promise you Walls can't dine with
the Dean to-day, for she is to be at Mrs. Proby's just after dinner, and
to go with Gracy Spencer(17) to the shops to buy a yard of muslin, and a
silver lace for an under petticoat. Morrow again, sirrahs.--At night. I
dined with Stratford in the City, but could not finish my affairs with
him; but now I am resolved to buy five hundred pounds South Sea Stock,
which will cost me three hundred and eighty ready money; and I will make
use of the bill of a hundred pounds you sent me, and transfer Mrs. Walls
over to Hawkshaw; or if she dislikes it, I will borrow a hundred pounds
of the Secretary, and repay her. Three shillings coach-hire to-day.
I have spoken to Frowde's brother to get me the lowest price of the
estate, to tell Mrs. Masham.

13. I dined privately with a friend to-day in the neighbourhood. Last
Saturday night I came home, and the drab had just washed my room, and
my bed-chamber was all wet, and I was forced to go to bed in my own
defence, and no fire: I was sick on Sunday, and now have got a swingeing
cold. I scolded like a dog at Patrick, although he was out with me: I
detest washing of rooms; can't they wash them in a morning, and make
a fire, and leave open the windows? I slept not a wink last night for
hawking(18) and spitting: and now everybody has colds. Here's a clutter:
I'll go to bed and sleep if I can.

14. Lady Mountjoy sent to me two days ago, so I dined with her to-day,
and in the evening went to see Lord Treasurer. I found Patrick had been
just there with a how d'ye,(19) and my lord had returned answer that he
desired to see me. Mrs. Masham was with him when I came, and they are
never disturbed: 'tis well she is not very handsome; they sit alone
together settling the nation. I sat with Lady Oxford, and stopped Mrs.
Masham as she came out, and told her what progress I had made, etc., and
then went to Lord Treasurer: he is very well, only uneasy at rising
or sitting, with some rheumatic pain in his thigh, and a foot weak. He
showed me a small paper, sent by an unknown hand to one Mr. Cook, who
sent it to my lord: it was written in plain large letters thus

     "Though G----d's knife did not succeed,
      A F----n's yet may do the deed."

And a little below: "BURN THIS, YOU DOG." My lord has frequently such
letters as these: once he showed me one, which was a vision describing
a certain man, his dress, his sword, and his countenance, who was to
murder my lord. And he told me he saw a fellow in the chapel at Windsor
with a dress very like it. They o