en you see him,
though he knows it already by a letter I writ to Mr. Warburton.(13) It
was bloody hot walking to-day. I dined in the City, and went and came
by water; and it rained so this evening again, that I thought I should
hardly be able to get a dry hour to walk home in. I will send to-morrow
to the Coffee-house for a letter from MD; but I would not have one
methinks till this is gone, as it shall on Saturday. I visited the
Duchess of Ormond this morning; she does not go over with the Duke. I
spoke to her to get a lad touched for the evil,(14) the son of a grocer
in Capel Street, one Bell; the ladies have bought sugar and plums of
him. Mrs. Mary used to go there often. This is Patrick's account; and
the poor fellow has been here some months with his boy. But the Queen
has not been able to touch, and it now grows so warm, I fear she
will not at all. Go, go, go to the Dean's, and let him carry you to
Donnybrook, and cut asparagus. Has Parvisol sent you any this year?
I cannot sleep in the beginnings of the nights, the heat or something
hinders me, and I am drowsy in the mornings.

9. Dr. Freind came this morning to visit Atterbury's lady and children
as physician, and persuaded me to go with him to town in his chariot.
He told me he had been an hour before with Sir Cholmley Dering, Charles
Dering's nephew, and head of that family in Kent, for which he is Knight
of the shire. He said he left him dying of a pistol-shot quite through
the body, by one Mr. Thornhill.(15) They fought at sword and pistol this
morning in Tuttle Fields,(16) their pistols so near that the muzzles
touched. Thornhill discharged first; and Dering, having received the
shot, discharged his pistol as he was falling, so it went into the air.
The story of this quarrel is long. Thornhill had lost seven teeth by a
kick in the mouth from Dering, who had first knocked him down; this
was above a fortnight ago. Dering was next week to be married to a fine
young lady. This makes a noise here, but you will not value it. Well,
Mr. Harley, Lord Keeper, and one or two more, are to be made lords
immediately; their patents are now passing, and I read the preamble to
Mr. Harley's, full of his praises. Lewis and I dined with Ford: I found
the wine; two flasks of my Florence, and two bottles of six that Dr.
Raymond sent me of French wine; he sent it to me to drink with Sir
Robert Raymond and Mr. Harley's brother,(17) whom I had introduced him
to; but they never could find time to come; and now I have left the
town, and it is too late. Raymond will think it a cheat. What care I,
sirrah?

10. Pshaw, pshaw. Patrick brought me four letters to-day: from Dilly at
Bath; Joe; Parvisol; and what was the fourth, who can tell? Stand away,
who'll guess? Who can it be? You old man with a stick, can you tell who
the fourth is from? Iss, an please your honour, it is from one Madam MD,
Number Fourteen. Well; but I can't send this away now, because it
was here, and I was in town; but it shall go on Saturday, and this is
Thursday night, and it will be time enough for Wexford. Take my method:
I write here to Parvisol to lend Stella twenty pounds, and to take her
note promissory to pay it in half a year, etc. You shall see, and if you
want more, let me know afterwards; and be sure my money shall be always
paid constantly too. Have you been good or ill housewives, pray?

11. Joe has written me to get him a collector's place, nothing less; he
says all the world knows of my great intimacy with Mr. Harley, and that
the smallest word to him will do. This is the constant cant of puppies
who are at a distance, and strangers to Courts and Ministers. My answer
is this, which pray send: that I am ready to serve Joe as far as I can;
that I have spoken to the Duke of Ormond about his money, as I writ to
Warburton; that for the particular he mentions, it is a work of time,
which I cannot think of at present; but, if accidents and opportunities
should happen hereafter, I would not be wanting; that I know best how
far my credit goes; that he is at a distance, and cannot judge; that I
would be glad to do him good, and if fortune throws an opportunity in
my way I shall not be wanting. This is my answer, which you may send or
read to him. Pray contrive that Parvisol may not run away with my two
hundred pounds; but get Burton's(18) note, and let the money be returned
me by bill. Don't laugh, for I will be suspicious. Teach Parvisol to
enclose, and direct the outside to Mr. Lewis. I will answer your letter
in my next, only what I take notice of here excepted. I forgot to tell
you that at the Court of Requests to-day I could not find a dinner I
liked, and it grew late, and I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, etc.

12. Morning. I will finish this letter before I go to town, because I
shall be busy, and have neither time nor place there. Farewell, etc.
etc.




LETTER 23.

CHELSEA, May 12, 1711.

I sent you my twenty-second this afternoon in town. I dined with Mr.
Harley and the old Club, Lord Rivers, Lord Keeper, and Mr. Secretary.
They rallied me last week, and said I must have Mr. St. John's leave; so
I writ to him 