to pieces.  But if
they still continue obstinate, or offer to raise insurrections, he
proceeds to the last remedy, by letting the island drop directly upon
their heads, which makes a universal destruction both of houses and men.
However, this is an extremity to which the prince is seldom driven,
neither indeed is he willing to put it in execution; nor dare his
ministers advise him to an action, which, as it would render them odious
to the people, so it would be a great damage to their own estates, which
all lie below; for the island is the king’s demesne.

But there is still indeed a more weighty reason, why the kings of this
country have been always averse from executing so terrible an action,
unless upon the utmost necessity.  For, if the town intended to be
destroyed should have in it any tall rocks, as it generally falls out in
the larger cities, a situation probably chosen at first with a view to
prevent such a catastrophe; or if it abound in high spires, or pillars of
stone, a sudden fall might endanger the bottom or under surface of the
island, which, although it consist, as I have said, of one entire
adamant, two hundred yards thick, might happen to crack by too great a
shock, or burst by approaching too near the fires from the houses below,
as the backs, both of iron and stone, will often do in our chimneys.  Of
all this the people are well apprised, and understand how far to carry
their obstinacy, where their liberty or property is concerned.  And the
king, when he is highest provoked, and most determined to press a city to
rubbish, orders the island to descend with great gentleness, out of a
pretence of tenderness to his people, but, indeed, for fear of breaking
the adamantine bottom; in which case, it is the opinion of all their
philosophers, that the loadstone could no longer hold it up, and the
whole mass would fall to the ground.

By a fundamental law of this realm, neither the king, nor either of his
two eldest sons, are permitted to leave the island; nor the queen, till
she is past child-bearing.



CHAPTER IV.


The author leaves Laputa; is conveyed to Balnibarbi; arrives at the
metropolis.  A description of the metropolis, and the country adjoining.
The author hospitably received by a great lord.  His conversation with
that lord.

Although I cannot say that I was ill treated in this island, yet I must
confess I thought myself too much neglected, not without some degree of
contempt; for neither prince nor people appeared to be curious in any
part of knowledge, except mathematics and music, wherein I was far their
inferior, and upon that account very little regarded.

On the other side, after having seen all the curiosities of the island, I
was very desirous to leave it, being heartily weary of those people.
They were indeed excellent in two sciences for which I have great esteem,
and wherein I am not unversed; but, at the same time, so abstracted and
involved in speculation, that I never met with such disagreeable
companions.  I conversed only with women, tradesmen, flappers, and
court-pages, during two months of my abode there; by which, at last, I
rendered myself extremely contemptible; yet these were the only people
from whom I could ever receive a reasonable answer.

I had obtained, by hard study, a good degree of knowledge in their
language: I was weary of being confined to an island where I received so
little countenance, and resolved to leave it with the first opportunity.

There was a great lord at court, nearly related to the king, and for that
reason alone used with respect.  He was universally reckoned the most
ignorant and stupid person among them.  He had performed many eminent
services for the crown, had great natural and acquired parts, adorned
with integrity and honour; but so ill an ear for music, that his
detractors reported, “he had been often known to beat time in the wrong
place;” neither could his tutors, without extreme difficulty, teach him
to demonstrate the most easy proposition in the mathematics.  He was
pleased to show me many marks of favour, often did me the honour of a
visit, desired to be informed in the affairs of Europe, the laws and
customs, the manners and learning of the several countries where I had
travelled.  He listened to me with great attention, and made very wise
observations on all I spoke.  He had two flappers attending him for
state, but never made use of them, except at court and in visits of
ceremony, and would always command them to withdraw, when we were alone
together.

I entreated this illustrious person, to intercede in my behalf with his
majesty, for leave to depart; which he accordingly did, as he was pleased
to tell me, with regret: for indeed he had made me several offers very
advantageous, which, however, I refused, with expressions of the highest
acknowledgment.

On the 16th of February I took leave of his majesty and the court.  The
king made me a present to the value of about two hundred pounds English,
and my protector, his kinsman, as much more, together with a letter of
recommendation to a friend of his in Lagado, the metropolis.  The island
