 service to Dr.
Smith. I sent the question to him about Sir Walter Raleigh's cordial,
and the answer he returned is in these words: "It is directly after Mr.
Boyle's receipt." That commission is performed; if he wants any of it,
Molt shall use him fairly. I suppose Smith is one of your physicians.
So, now your letter is fully and impartially answered; not as rascals
answer me: I believe, if I writ an essay upon a straw, I should have a
shoal of answerers: but no matter for that; you see I can answer without
making any reflections, as becomes men of learning. Well, but now for
the peace: why, we expect it daily; but the French have the staff
in their own hands, and we trust to their honesty. I wish it were
otherwise. Things are now in the way of being soon in the extremes of
well or ill. I hope and believe the first. Lord Wharton is gone out of
town in a rage, and curses himself and friends for ruining themselves
in defending Lord Marlborough and Godolphin, and taking Nottingham into
their favour. He swears he will meddle no more during this reign; a
pretty speech at sixty-six, and the Queen is near twenty years younger,
and now in very good health; for you must know her health is fixed by
a certain reason, that she has done with braces (I must use the
expression), and nothing ill is happened to her since; so she has a new
lease of her life. Read the Letter to a Whig Lord.(6) Do you ever read?
Why don't you say so? I mean does DD read to Ppt? Do you walk? I think
Ppt should walk to(7) DD; as DD reads to Ppt, for Ppt oo must know is a
good walker; but not so good as Pdfr. I intend to dine to-day with Mr.
Lewis, but it threatens rain; and I shall be too late to get a lift; and
I must write to the Bishop of Clogher. 'Tis now ten in the morning; and
this is all writ at a heat. Farewell deelest... deelest MD, MD, MD, MD,
MD, FW, FW, FW, ME, ME, ME, Lele, ME, Lele, ME, Lele, ME, Lele, Lele,
Lele, ME.




LETTER 49.(1)

KENSINGTON, July 1, 1712.

I never was in a worse station for writing letters than this, especially
for writing to MD, since I left off my journals. For I go to town early;
and when I come home at night, I generally go to Lord Masham, where Lord
Treasurer comes, and we stay till past twelve. But I am now resolved
to write journals again, though my shoulder is not yet well; for I have
still a few itching pimples, and a little pain now and then. It is now
high cherry-time with us; take notice, is it so soon with you? And we
have early apricots, and gooseberries are ripe. On Sunday Archdeacon
Parnell came here to see me. It seems he has been ill for grief of his
wife's death,(2) and has been two months at the Bath. He has a mind
to go to Dunkirk with Jack Hill,(3) and I persuade him to it, and have
spoke to Hill to receive him; but I doubt he won't have spirit to go. I
have made Ford(4) Gazetteer, and got two hundred pounds a year settled
on the employment by the Secretary of State, beside the perquisites.
It is the prettiest employment in England of its bigness; yet the puppy
does not seem satisfied with it. I think people keep some follies to
themselves, till they have occasion to produce them. He thinks it not
genteel enough, and makes twenty difficulties. 'Tis impossible to make
any man easy. His salary is paid him every week, if he pleases, without
taxes or abatements. He has little to do for it. He has a pretty office,
with coals, candles, papers, etc.; can frank what letters he will; and
his perquisites, if he takes care, may be worth one hundred pounds more.
I hear the Bishop of Clogher is landing, or landed, in England; and I
hope to see him in a few days. I was to see Mrs. Bradley(5) on Sunday
night. Her youngest son is married to somebody worth nothing, and her
daughter was forced to leave Lady Giffard, because she was striking up
an intrigue with a footman, who played well upon the flute. This is the
mother's account of it. Yesterday the old Bishop of Worcester,(6) who
pretends to be a prophet, went to the Queen, by appointment, to prove
to Her Majesty, out of Daniel and the Revelations, that four years hence
there would be a war of religion; that the King of France would be
a Protestant, and fight on their side; that the Popedom would be
destroyed, etc.; and declared that he would be content to give up his
bishopric if it were not true. Lord Treasurer, who told it me, was by,
and some others; and I am told Lord Treasurer confounded him sadly in
his own learning, which made the old fool very quarrelsome. He is near
ninety years old. Old Bradley is fat and lusty, and has lost his palsy.
Have you seen Toland's Invitation to Dismal?(7) How do you like it? But
it is an imitation of Horace, and perhaps you don't understand Horace.
Here has been a great sweep of employments, and we expect still more
removals. The Court seems resolved to make thorough work. Mr. Hill
intended to set out to-morrow for Dunkirk, of which he is appointed
Governor; but he tells me to-day that he cannot go till Thursday or
Friday. I wish it were over. Mr. Secretary tells me he is (in) no fear
at all that France will play tricks with us. I