n to Dr.
Arbuthnot to Windsor, not to insist on doing such a hardship. I dined
in the City at Pontack's, with Stratford; it cost me seven shillings: he
would have treated, but I did not let him. I have removed my money from
the Bank to another fund. I desire Parvisol may speak to Hawkshaw to
pay in my money when he can, for I will put it in the funds; and, in the
meantime, borrow so much of Mr. Secretary, who offers to lend it me. Go
to the Dean's, sirrahs.

27. Bernage was with me again to-day, and is in great fear, and so was
I; but this afternoon, at Lord Treasurer's, where I dined, my brother,
George Granville, Secretary at War, after keeping me a while in
suspense, told me that Dr. Arbuthnot had waived the business, because
he would not wrong a friend of mine; that his brother is to be a
lieutenant, and Bernage is made a captain. I called at his lodging, and
the soldier's coffee-house, to put him out of pain, but cannot find him;
so I have left word, and shall see him to-morrow morning, I suppose.
Bernage is now easy; he has ten shillings a day, beside lawful cheating.
However, he gives a private sum to his Colonel, but it is very cheap:
his Colonel loves him well, but is surprised to see him have so many
friends. So he is now quite off my hands. I left the company early
to-night, at Lord Treasurer's; but the Secretary followed me, to desire
I would go with him to W--. Mr. Lewis's man came in before I could
finish that word beginning with a W, which ought to be Windsor, and
brought me a very handsome rallying letter from Dr. Arbuthnot, to tell
me he had, in compliance to me, given up his brother's pretensions in
favour of Bernage, this very morning; that the Queen had spoken to
Mr. Granville to make the company easy in the other's having the
captainship. Whether they have done it to oblige me or no, I must own it
so. He says he this very morning begged Her Majesty to give Mr. Bernage
the company. I am mighty well pleased to have succeeded so well; but you
will think me tedious, although you like the man, as I think.

Windsor, 28. I came here a day sooner than ordinary, at Mr. Secretary's
desire, and supped with him and Prior, and two private Ministers from
France, and a French priest.(6) I know not the two Ministers' names; but
they are come about the peace. The names the Secretary called them,
I suppose, were feigned; they were good rational men. We have already
settled all things with France, and very much to the honour and
advantage of England; and the Queen is in mighty good humour. All this
news is a mighty secret; the people in general know that a peace is
forwarding. The Earl of Strafford(7) is to go soon to Holland, and let
them know what we have been doing: and then there will be the devil
and all to pay; but we'll make them swallow it with a pox. The French
Ministers stayed with us till one, and the Secretary and I sat up
talking till two; so you will own 'tis late, sirrahs, and time for your
little saucy Presto to go to bed and sleep adazy; and God bless poor
little MD: I hope they are now fast asleep, and dreaming of Presto.

29. Lord Treasurer came to-night, as usual, at half an hour after eight,
as dark as pitch. I am weary of chiding him; so I commended him for
observing his friend's advice, and coming so early, etc. I was two hours
with Lady Oglethorpe(8) to-night, and then supped with Lord Treasurer,
after dining at the Green Cloth: I stayed till two; this is the effect
of Lord Treasurer's being here; I must sup with him; and he keeps cursed
hours. Lord Keeper and the Secretary were absent; they cannot sit up
with him. This long sitting up makes the periods in my letters so short.
I design to stay here all the next week, to be at leisure by myself, to
finish something of weight I have upon my hands, and which must soon be
done. I shall then think of returning to Ireland, if these people will
let me; and I know nothing else they have for me to do. I gave Dr.
Arbuthnot my thanks for his kindness to Bernage, whose commission is
now signed. Methinks I long to know something of Stella's health, how it
continues after Wexford waters.

30. The Queen was not at chapel to-day, and all for the better, for we
had a dunce to preach: she has a little of the gout. I dined with
my brother Masham, and a moderate company, and would not go to Lord
Treasurer's till after supper at eleven o'clock, and pretended I had
mistaken the hour; so I ate nothing: and a little after twelve the
company broke up, the Keeper and Secretary refusing to stay; so I saved
this night's debauch. Prior went away yesterday with his Frenchmen, and
a thousand reports are raised in this town. Some said they knew one to
be the Abbe de Polignac: others swore it was the Abbe du Bois. The Whigs
are in a rage about the peace; but we'll wherret(9) them, I warrant,
boys. Go, go, go to the Dean's and don't mind politics, young women,
they are not good after the waters; they are stark naught: they strike
up into the head. Go, get two black aces, and fish for a manilio.

Oct. 1. Sir John Walter,(10) an honest drunken fellow, is now in
waiting, and invited me