ther. It is comical that now we
happen to have such heat to ripen the fruit there has been the greatest
blast that was ever known, and almost all the fruit is despaired of.
I dined with Lord Shelburne: Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt are going to
Ireland. I went this evening to Lord Treasurer, and sat about two hours
with him in mixed company; he left us, and went to Court, and carried
two staves with him, so I suppose we shall have a new Lord Steward or
Comptroller to-morrow; I smoked that State secret out by that accident.
I will not answer your letter yet, sirrahs; no I won't, madam.

June 1. I wish you a merry month of June. I dined again with the Vans
and Sir Andrew Fountaine. I always give them a flask of my Florence,
which now begins to spoil, but it is near an end. I went this afternoon
to Mrs. Vedeau's, and brought away Madam Dingley's parchment and letter
of attorney. Mrs. Vedeau tells me she has sent the bill a fortnight ago.
I will give the parchment to Ben Tooke, and you shall send him a letter
of attorney at your leisure, enclosed to Mr. Presto. Yes, I now think
your mackerel is full as good as ours, which I did not think formerly. I
was bit about two staves, for there is no new officer made to-day. This
letter will find you still in Dublin, I suppose, or at Donnybrook, or
losing your money at Walls' (how does she do?).

2. I missed this day by a blunder and dining in the City.(11)

3. No boats on Sunday, never: so I was forced to walk, and so hot by the
time I got to Ford's lodging that I was quite spent; I think the weather
is mad. I could not go to church. I dined with the Secretary as usual,
and old Colonel Graham(12) that lived at Bagshot Heath, and they said it
was Colonel Graham's house. Pshaw, I remember it very well, when I used
to go for a walk to London from Moor Park. What, I warrant you do not
remember the Golden Farmer(13) neither, figgarkick soley?(14)

4. When must we answer this letter, this N.15 of our little MD? Heat and
laziness, and Sir Andrew Fountaine, made me dine to-day again at Mrs.
Van's; and, in short, this weather is unsupportable: how is it with you?
Lady Betty Butler and Lady Ashburnham sat with me two or three hours
this evening in my closet at Mrs. Van's. They are very good girls; and
if Lady Betty went to Ireland, you should let her be acquainted with
you. How does Dingley do this hot weather? Stella, I think, never
complains of it; she loves hot weather. There has not been a drop of
rain since Friday se'ennight. Yes, you do love hot weather, naughty
Stella, you do so; and Presto can't abide it. Be a good girl then, and I
will love you; and love one another, and don't be quarrelling girls.

5. I dined in the City to-day, and went from hence early to town, and
visited the Duke of Ormond and Mr. Secretary. They say my Lord Treasurer
has a dead warrant in his pocket; they mean a list of those who are to
be turned out of employment; and we every day now expect those changes.
I passed by the Treasury to-day, and saw vast crowds waiting to give
Lord Treasurer petitions as he passes by. He is now at the top of
power and favour: he keeps no levees yet. I am cruel thirsty this hot
weather.--I am just this minute going to swim. I take Patrick down with
me, to hold my nightgown, shirt, and slippers, and borrow a napkin of my
landlady for a cap. So farewell till I come up; but there is no danger,
don't be frighted.--I have been swimming this half-hour and more; and
when I was coming out I dived, to make my head and all through wet, like
a cold bath; but, as I dived, the napkin fell off and is lost, and I
have that to pay for. O, faith, the great stones were so sharp, I could
hardly set my feet on them as I came out. It was pure and warm. I got to
bed, and will now go sleep.

6. Morning. This letter shall go to-morrow; so I will answer yours when
I come home to-night. I feel no hurt from last night's swimming. I lie
with nothing but the sheet over me, and my feet quite bare. I must rise
and go to town before the tide is against me. Morrow, sirrahs; dear
sirrahs, morrow.--At night. I never felt so hot a day as this since I
was born. I dined with Lady Betty Germaine, and there was the young Earl
of Berkeley(15) and his fine lady. I never saw her before, nor think her
near so handsome as she passes for.--After dinner, Mr. Bertue(16) would
not let me put ice in my wine, but said my Lord Dorchester(17) got the
bloody flux with it, and that it was the worst thing in the world. Thus
are we plagued, thus are we plagued; yet I have done it five or six
times this summer, and was but the drier and the hotter for it. Nothing
makes me so excessively peevish as hot weather. Lady Berkeley after
dinner clapped my hat on another lady's head, and she in roguery put it
upon the rails. I minded them not; but in two minutes they called me
to the window, and Lady Carteret(18) showed me my hat out of her window
five doors off, where I was forced to walk to it, and pay her and old
Lady Weymouth(19) a visit, with some more beldames. Then I went and
drank coffee, and made one or two puns, with Lord Pembroke,(20) and
desig