-day, and mend my night's sleep: I
slept till after two, and then sent for a bit of mutton and pot of ale
from the next cook's shop, and had no stomach. I went out at four, and
called to see Biddy Floyd, which I had not done these three months: she
is something marked, but has recovered her complexion quite, and looks
very well. Then I sat the evening with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and drank
coffee, and ate an egg. I likewise took a new lodging to-day, not liking
a ground-floor, nor the ill smell, and other circumstances. I lodge,
or shall lodge, by Leicester Fields, and pay ten shillings a week; that
won't hold out long, faith. I shall lie here but one night more. It
rained terribly till one o'clock to-day. I lie, for I shall lie here two
nights, till Thursday, and then remove. Did I tell you that my friend
Mrs. Barton has a brother(1) drowned, that went on the expedition with
Jack Hill? He was a lieutenant-colonel, and a coxcomb; and she keeps her
chamber in form, and the servants say she receives no messages.--Answer
MD's letter, Presto, d'ye hear? No, says Presto, I won't yet, I'm busy;
you're a saucy rogue. Who talks?

10. It cost me two shillings in coach-hire to dine in the City with a
printer. I have sent, and caused to be sent, three pamphlets out in a
fortnight. I will ply the rogues warm; and whenever anything of theirs
makes a noise, it shall have an answer. I have instructed an under
spur-leather to write so, that it is taken for mine. A rogue that writes
a newspaper, called The Protestant Postboy, has reflected on me in one
of his papers; but the Secretary has taken him up, and he shall have a
squeeze extraordinary. He says that an ambitious tantivy,(2) missing of
his towering hopes of preferment in Ireland, is come over to vent his
spleen on the late Ministry, etc. I'll tantivy him with a vengeance. I
sat the evening at home, and am very busy, and can hardly find time to
write, unless it were to MD. I am in furious haste.

11. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer. Thursdays are now his days
when his choice company comes, but we are too much multiplied. George
Granville sent his excuses upon being ill; I hear he apprehends the
apoplexy, which would grieve me much. Lord Treasurer calls Prior nothing
but Monsieur Baudrier, which was the feigned name of the Frenchman that
writ his Journey to Paris.(3) They pretend to suspect me, so I talk
freely of it, and put them out of their play. Lord Treasurer calls me
now Dr. Martin, because martin(4) is a sort of a swallow, and so is a
swift. When he and I came last Monday from Windsor, we were reading
all the signs on the road.(5) He is a pure trifler; tell the Bishop of
Clogher so. I made him make two lines in verse for the Bell and Dragon,
and they were rare bad ones. I suppose Dilly is with you by this time:
what could his reason be of leaving London, and not owning it? 'Twas
plaguy silly. I believe his natural inconstancy made him weary. I think
he is the king of inconstancy. I stayed with Lord Treasurer till ten; we
had five lords and three commoners. Go to ombre, sirrahs.

12. Mrs. Vanhomrigh has changed her lodging as well as I. She found she
had got with a bawd, and removed. I dined with her to-day; for though
she boards, her landlady does not dine with her. I am grown a mighty
lover of herrings; but they are much smaller here than with you. In the
afternoon I visited an old major-general, and ate six oysters; then sat
an hour with Mrs. Colledge,(6) the joiner's daughter that was hanged; it
was the joiner was hanged, and not his daughter; with Thompson's wife, a
magistrate. There was the famous Mrs. Floyd of Chester, who, I think,
is the handsomest woman (except MD) that ever I saw. She told me that
twenty people had sent her the verses upon Biddy,(7) as meant to her:
and, indeed, in point of handsomeness, she deserves them much better. I
will not go to Windsor to-morrow, and so I told the Secretary to-day.
I hate the thoughts of Saturday and Sunday suppers with Lord Treasurer.
Jack Hill is come home from his unfortunate expedition, and is, I think,
now at Windsor: I have not yet seen him. He is privately blamed by his
own friends for want of conduct. He called a council of war, and therein
it was determined to come back. But they say a general should not do
that, because the officers will always give their opinion for returning,
since the blame will not lie upon them, but the general. I pity him
heartily. Bernage received his commission to-day.

13. I dined to-day with Colonel Crowe,(8) late Governor of Barbadoes;
he is a great acquaintance of your friend Sterne, to whom I trusted the
box. Lord Treasurer has refused Sterne's business, and I doubt he is a
rake; Jemmy Leigh stays for him, and nobody knows where to find him. I
am so busy now I have hardly time to spare to write to our little MD,
but in a fortnight I hope it will be over. I am going now to be busy,
etc.

14. I was going to dine with Dr. Cockburn, but Sir Andrew Fountaine
met me, and carried me to Mrs. Van's, where I drank the last bottle
of Raymond's wine, admirable good, better than any I get among the
Ministry