 be blown down by the wind, or to
fall by my own giddiness, and come tumbling over and over from the ridge
to the eaves; but an honest lad, one of my nurse’s footmen, climbed up,
and putting me into his breeches pocket, brought me down safe.

I was almost choked with the filthy stuff the monkey had crammed down my
throat: but my dear little nurse picked it out of my mouth with a small
needle, and then I fell a-vomiting, which gave me great relief.  Yet I
was so weak and bruised in the sides with the squeezes given me by this
odious animal, that I was forced to keep my bed a fortnight.  The king,
queen, and all the court, sent every day to inquire after my health; and
her majesty made me several visits during my sickness.  The monkey was
killed, and an order made, that no such animal should be kept about the
palace.

When I attended the king after my recovery, to return him thanks for his
favours, he was pleased to rally me a good deal upon this adventure.  He
asked me, “what my thoughts and speculations were, while I lay in the
monkey’s paw; how I liked the victuals he gave me; his manner of feeding;
and whether the fresh air on the roof had sharpened my stomach.”  He
desired to know, “what I would have done upon such an occasion in my own
country.”  I told his majesty, “that in Europe we had no monkeys, except
such as were brought for curiosity from other places, and so small, that
I could deal with a dozen of them together, if they presumed to attack
me.  And as for that monstrous animal with whom I was so lately engaged
(it was indeed as large as an elephant), if my fears had suffered me to
think so far as to make use of my hanger,” (looking fiercely, and
clapping my hand on the hilt, as I spoke) “when he poked his paw into my
chamber, perhaps I should have given him such a wound, as would have made
him glad to withdraw it with more haste than he put it in.”  This I
delivered in a firm tone, like a person who was jealous lest his courage
should be called in question.  However, my speech produced nothing else
beside a laud laughter, which all the respect due to his majesty from
those about him could not make them contain.  This made me reflect, how
vain an attempt it is for a man to endeavour to do himself honour among
those who are out of all degree of equality or comparison with him.  And
yet I have seen the moral of my own behaviour very frequent in England
since my return; where a little contemptible varlet, without the least
title to birth, person, wit, or common sense, shall presume to look with
importance, and put himself upon a foot with the greatest persons of the
kingdom.

I was every day furnishing the court with some ridiculous story: and
Glumdalclitch, although she loved me to excess, yet was arch enough to
inform the queen, whenever I committed any folly that she thought would
be diverting to her majesty.  The girl, who had been out of order, was
carried by her governess to take the air about an hour’s distance, or
thirty miles from town.  They alighted out of the coach near a small
foot-path in a field, and Glumdalclitch setting down my travelling box, I
went out of it to walk.  There was a cow-dung in the path, and I must
need try my activity by attempting to leap over it.  I took a run, but
unfortunately jumped short, and found myself just in the middle up to my
knees.  I waded through with some difficulty, and one of the footmen
wiped me as clean as he could with his handkerchief, for I was filthily
bemired; and my nurse confined me to my box, till we returned home; where
the queen was soon informed of what had passed, and the footmen spread it
about the court: so that all the mirth for some days was at my expense.



CHAPTER VI.


Several contrivances of the author to please the king and queen.  He
shows his skill in music.  The king inquires into the state of England,
which the author relates to him.  The king’s observations thereon.

I used to attend the king’s levee once or twice a week, and had often
seen him under the barber’s hand, which indeed was at first very terrible
to behold; for the razor was almost twice as long as an ordinary scythe.
His majesty, according to the custom of the country, was only shaved
twice a-week.  I once prevailed on the barber to give me some of the suds
or lather, out of which I picked forty or fifty of the strongest stumps
of hair.  I then took a piece of fine wood, and cut it like the back of a
comb, making several holes in it at equal distances with as small a
needle as I could get from Glumdalclitch.  I fixed in the stumps so
artificially, scraping and sloping them with my knife toward the points,
that I made a very tolerable comb; which was a seasonable supply, my own
being so much broken in the teeth, that it was almost useless: neither
did I know any artist in that country so nice and exact, as would
undertake to make me another.

And this puts me in mind of an amusement, wherein I spent many of my
leisure hours.  I desired the queen’s woman to save for me the combings
of her majesty’s hair, whereof in time I got a good quantity; and
consulting with my friend th