r. Warburton's
letter, and desires he will let the Doctor know where(15) that accident
he mentions is like soon to happen, and he will do what he can in
it.--And pray, madam, let them know that I do this to save myself the
trouble, and them the expense of a letter. And I think that this is
enough for one that comes home at twelve from a Lord Treasurer and Mrs.
Masham. Oh, I could tell you ten thousand things of our mad politics,
upon what small circumstances great affairs have turned. But I will go
rest my busy head.

28. I was this morning with brother Bathurst to see the Duke of Ormond.
We have given his Grace some hopes to be one of our Society. The
Secretary and I and Bathurst are to dine with him on Sunday next. The
Duke is not in much hopes, but has been very busy in endeavouring to
bring over some lords against next Wednesday. The Duchess caught me as I
was going out; she is sadly in fear about things, and blames me for not
mending them by my credit with Lord Treasurer; and I blame her. She met
me in the street at noon, and engaged me to dine with her, which I did;
and we talked an hour after dinner in her closet. If we miscarry on
Wednesday, I believe it will be by some strange sort of neglect. They
talk of making eight new lords by calling up some peers' eldest sons;
but they delay strangely. I saw Judge Coote(16) to-day at the Duke of
Ormond's: he desires to come and see me, to justify his principles.

29. Morning. This goes to-day. I will not answer yours, your 24th, till
next, which shall begin to-night, as usual. Lord Shelburne has sent to
invite me to dinner, but I am engaged with Lewis at Ned Southwell's.
Lord Northampton and Lord Aylesbury's sons(17) are both made peers; but
we shall want more. I write this post to your Dean. I owe the Archbishop
a letter this long time. All people that come from Ireland complain of
him, and scold me for protecting him. Pray, Madam Dingley, let me know
what Presto has received for this year, or whether anything is due
to him for last: I cannot look over your former letters now. As for
Dingley's own account of her exchequer money, I will give it on t'other
side. Farewell, my own dearest MD, and love Presto; and God ever bless
dearest MD, etc. etc. I wish you many happy Christmases and new years.

I have owned to the Dean a letter I just had from you, but that I had
not one this great while before.


DINGLEY'S ACCOUNT

  Received of Mr. Tooke..                                 6 17 6
  Deducted for entering the letter of attorney.            0 2 6
  For the three half-crowns it used to cost you, I don't
  know why nor wherefore..                                 0 7 6
  For exchange to Ireland..                               0 10 0
  Forcoach-hire..                                          0 2 6
                                                        --------
                                    In all, just         8  0  0

So there's your money, and we are both even: for I'll pay you no more
than that eight pounds Irish, and pray be satisfied.

Churchwarden's accounts, boys.

Saturday night. I have broke open my letter, and tore it into the
bargain, to let you know that we are all safe: the Queen has made no
less than twelve lords,(18) to have a majority; nine new ones, the
other three peers' sons; and has turned out the Duke of Somerset. She is
awaked at last, and so is Lord Treasurer: I want nothing now but to
see the Duchess out. But we shall do without her. We are all extremely
happy. Give me joy, sirrahs. This is written in a coffee-house. Three of
the new lords are of our Society.




LETTER 38.

LONDON, Dec. 29, 1711.

I put my letter in this evening, after coming from dinner at Ned
Southwell's, where I drank very good Irish wine, and we are in great joy
at this happy turn of affairs. The Queen has been at last persuaded to
her own interest and security, and I freely think she must have made
both herself and kingdom very unhappy, if she had done otherwise. It is
still a mighty secret that Masham is to be one of the new lords; they
say he does not yet know it himself; but the Queen is to surprise him
with it. Mr. Secretary will be a lord at the end of the session; but
they want him still in Parliament. After all, it is a strange unhappy
necessity of making so many peers together; but the Queen has drawn it
upon herself, by her confounded trimming and moderation. Three, as I
told you, are of our Society.

30. I writ the Dean and you a lie yesterday; for the Duke of Somerset is
not yet turned out. I was to-day at Court, and resolved to be very civil
to the Whigs; but saw few there. When I was in the bed-chamber talking
to Lord Rochester, he went up to Lady Burlington,(1) who asked him who
I was; and Lady Sunderland and she whispered about me: I desired Lord
Rochester to tell Lady Sunderland I doubted she was not as much in love
with me as I was with her; but he would not deliver my message. The
Duchess of Shrewsbury came running up to me, and clapped her fan up to
hide us from the company, and we gave one another joy of this change;
but sighed when we reflected on the Somers