The Lords made yesterday two or three votes about peace, and
Hanover, of a very angry kind to vex the Ministry, and they will meet
sooner by a fortnight than the Commons; and they say, are preparing some
knocking addresses. Morrow, sirrahs. I'll sit at home, and when I go
to bed I will tell you how I am.--I have sat at home all day, and eaten
only a mess of broth and a roll. I have written a Prophecy,(7) which I
design to print; I did it to-day, and some other verses.

24. I went into the City to-day in a coach, and dined there. My cold is
going. It is now bitter hard frost, and has been so these three or four
days. My Prophecy is printed, and will be published after Christmas
Day; I like it mightily: I don't know how it will pass. You will never
understand it at your distance, without help. I believe everybody will
guess it to be mine, because it is somewhat in the same manner with that
of "Merlin"(8) in the Miscellanies. My Lord Privy Seal set out this day
for Holland: he'll have a cold journey. I gave Patrick half a crown for
his Christmas box, on condition he would be good, and he came home drunk
at midnight. I have taken a memorandum of it, because I never design to
give him a groat more. 'Tis cruel cold.

25. I wish MD a merry Christmas, and many a one; but mine is melancholy:
I durst not go to church to-day, finding myself a little out of order,
and it snowing prodigiously, and freezing. At noon I went to Mrs. Van,
who had this week engaged me to dine there to-day: and there I received
the news that poor Mrs. Long(9) died at Lynn in Norfolk on Saturday
last, at four in the morning: she was sick but four hours. We suppose it
was the asthma, which she was subject to as well as the dropsy, as she
sent me word in her last letter, written about five weeks ago; but then
said she was recovered. I never was more afflicted at any death. The
poor creature had retired to Lynn two years ago, to live cheap, and
pay her debts. In her last letter she told me she hoped to be easy by
Christmas; and she kept her word, although she meant it otherwise.
She had all sorts of amiable qualities, and no ill ones, but the
indiscretion of too much neglecting her own affairs. She had two
thousand pounds left her by an old grandmother,(10) with which she
intended to pay her debts, and live on an annuity she had of one hundred
pounds a year, and Newburg House, which would be about sixty pounds
more. That odious grandmother living so long, forced her to retire; for
the two thousand pounds was settled on her after the old woman's death,
yet her brute of a brother, Sir James Long,(11) would not advance it for
her; else she might have paid her debts, and continued here, and lived
still: I believe melancholy helped her on to her grave. I have ordered a
paragraph to be put in the Postboy,(12) giving an account of her death,
and making honourable mention of her; which is all I can do to serve her
memory: but one reason was spite; for her brother would fain have her
death a secret, to save the charge of bringing her up here to bury her,
or going into mourning. Pardon all this, for the sake of a poor creature
I had so much friendship for.

26. I went to Mr. Secretary this morning, and he would have me dine with
him. I called at noon at Mrs. Masham's, who desired me not to let the
Prophecy be published, for fear of angering the Queen about the Duchess
of Somerset; so I writ to the printer to stop them. They have been
printed and given about, but not sold. I saw Lord Treasurer there, who
had been two hours with the Queen; and Mrs. Masham is in hopes things
will do well again. I went at night again, and supped at Mr. Masham's,
and Lord Treasurer sat with us till one o'clock. So 'tis late, etc.

27. I entertained our Society at the Thatched House Tavern to-day at
dinner; but brother Bathurst sent for wine, the house affording none.
The printer had not received my letter, and so he brought up dozens
apiece of the Prophecy; but I ordered him to part with no more. 'Tis an
admirable good one, and people are mad for it. The frost still continues
violently cold. Mrs. Masham invited me to come to-night and play at
cards; but our Society did not part till nine. But I supped with Mrs.
Hill, her sister, and there was Mrs. Masham and Lord Treasurer, and we
stayed till twelve. He is endeavouring to get a majority against next
Wednesday, when the House of Lords is to meet, and the Whigs intend to
make some violent addresses against a peace, if not prevented. God knows
what will become of us.--It is still prodigiously cold; but so I told
you already. We have eggs on the spit, I wish they may not be addled.
When I came home tonight I found, forsooth, a letter from MD, N.24, 24,
24, 24; there, do you know the numbers now? and at the same time one
from Joe,(13) full of thanks: let him know I have received it, and am
glad of his success, but won't put him to the charge of a letter. I had
a letter some time ago from Mr. Warburton,(14) and I beg one of you
will copy out what I shall tell you, and send it by some opportunity
to Warburton. 'Tis as follows: The Doctor has received M