 found accordingly; but who sent the present
is not yet known. The Duke of Hamilton avoided the quarrel as much as
possible, according to the foppish rules of honour in practice. What
signified your writing angry to Filby? I hope you said nothing of
hearing anything from me. Heigh! do oo write by sandlelight! nauti,
nauti, nauti dallar, a hundred times, fol doing so. O, fais, DD, I'll
take care of myself! The Queen is in town, and Lady Masham's month of
lying-in is within two days of being out. I was at the christening on
Monday. I could not get the child named Robin, after Lord Treasurer; it
is Samuel, after the father. My brother Ormond sent me some chocolate
to-day. I wish you had share of it: but they say 'tis good for me, and I
design to drink some in a morning. Our Society meets next Thursday, now
the Queen is in town; and Lord Treasurer assures me that the Society for
reforming the language shall soon be established. I have given away ten
shillings to-day to servants; 'tan't be help if one should cry one's
eyes out.(14) Hot a stir is here about your company and visits! Charming
company, no doubt; now I keep no company at all, nor have I any desire
to keep any. I never go to a coffee-house nor a tavern, nor have touched
a card since I left Windsor. I make few visits, nor go to levees; my
only debauching is sitting late where I dine, if I like the company.
I have almost dropped the Duchesses of Shrewsbury and Hamilton, and
several others. Lord Treasurer, the Duke of Ormond, and Lady Orkney are
all that I see very often. Oh yes, and Lady Masham and Lord Bolingbroke,
and one or two private friends. I make no figure but at Court, where I
affect to turn from a lord to the meanest of my acquaintance, and I love
to go there on Sundays to see the world. But, to say the truth, I am
growing weary of it. I dislike a million of things in the course of
public affairs; and if I were to stay here much longer, I am sure
I should ruin myself with endeavouring to mend them. I am every day
invited into schemes of doing this, but I cannot find any that will
probably succeed. It is impossible to save people against their own
will; and I have been too much engaged in patchwork already. Do you
understand all this stuff? No. Well zen, you are now returned to ombre
and the Dean, and Christmas; I wish oo a very merry one; and pray don't
lose oo money, nor play upon Watt Welch's game. Nite, sollahs, 'tis rate
I'll go to seep; I don't seep well, and therefore never dare to drink
coffee or tea after dinner: but I am very seepy in a molning. This is
the effect of time and years. Nite deelest MD.

18. Morn. I am so very seepy in the morning that my man wakens me
above ten times; and now I can tell oo no news of this day. (Here is a
restless dog, crying cabbages and savoys, plagues me every morning about
this time; he is now at it. I wish his largest cabbage were sticking
in his throat.) I lodge over against the house in Little Rider Street,
where DD lodged. Don't oo lememble, maram? To-night I must see the Abbe
Gaultier,(15) to get some particulars for my History. It was he who was
first employed by France in the overtures of peace, and I have not had
time this month to see him; he is but a puppy too. Lady Orkney has just
sent to invite me to dinner; she has not given me the bed-nightgown;(16)
besides, I am come very much off from writing in bed, though I am doing
it this minute; but I stay till my fire is burnt up. My grate is very
large; two bushels of coals in a week: but I save it in lodgings. Lord
Abercorn is come to London, and will plague me, and I can do him no
service. The Duke of Shrewsbury goes in a day or two for France, perhaps
to-day. We shall have a peace very soon; the Dutch are almost entirely
agreed, and if they stop we shall make it without them; that has been
long resolved. One Squire Jones,(17) a scoundrel in my parish, has writ
to me to desire I would engage Joe Beaumont to give him his interest for
Parliament-man for Trim: pray tell Joe this; and if he designed to vote
for him already, then he may tell Jones that I received his letter, and
that I writ to Joe to do it. If Joe be engaged for any other, then he
may do what he will: and Parvisol may say he spoke to Joe, but Joe's
engaged, etc. I received three pair of fine thread stockings from Joe
lately. Pray thank him when you see him, and that I say they are very
fine and good. (I never looked at them yet, but that's no matter.) This
is a fine day. I am ruined with coaches and chairs this twelvepenny
weather. I must see my brother Ormond at eleven, and then the Duchess of
Hamilton, with whom I doubt I am in disgrace, not having seen her these
ten days. I send this to-day, and must finish it now; and perhaps
some people may come and hinder me; for it im ten o'clock (but not
shaving-day), and I must be abroad at eleven. Abbe Gaultier sends me
word I can't see him to-night; pots cake him! I don't value anything but
one letter he has of Petecum's,(18) showing the roguery of the Dutch.
Did not the Conduct of the Allies make you great politicians? Fais, I
believe you are not quite s