e Dean never once written to me? I won sixpence; I won
sixpence; there is not one letter to Presto. Good-morrow, dear sirrahs:
Stratford and I dine to-day with Lord Mountjoy. God Almighty preserve
and bless you; farewell, etc.

I have been dining at Lord Mountjoy's; and am come to study; our news
from Spain this post takes off some of our fears. The Parliament is
prorogued to-day, or adjourned rather till after the holidays. Bank
Stock is 105, so I may get 12 shillings for my bargain already. Patrick,
the puppy, is abroad, and how shall I send this letter? Good-night,
little dears both, and be happy; and remember your poor Presto, that
wants you sadly, as hope saved. Let me go study, naughty girls, and
don't keep me at the bottom of the paper. O, faith, if you knew what
lies on my hands constantly, you would wonder to see how I could write
such long letters; but we'll talk of that some other time. Good-night
again, and God bless dear MD with His best blessings, yes, yes, and
Dingley and Stella and me too, etc.

Ask the Bishop of Clogher about the pun I sent him of Lord Stawel's
brother;(61) it will be a pure bite. This letter has 199 lines in it,
beside all postscripts; I had a curiosity to reckon.

There is a long letter for you.

It is longer than a sermon, faith.

I had another letter from Mrs. Fenton, who says you were with her; I
hope you did not go on purpose. I will answer her letter soon; it is
about some money in Lady Giffard's hands.

They say you have had eight packets due to you; so pray, madams, do not
blame Presto, but the wind.

My humble service to Mrs. Walls and Mrs. Stoyte; I missed the former a
good while.




LETTER 12.

LONDON, Dec. 23, 1710.

I have sent my 11th to-night as usual, and begin the dozenth, and I told
you I dined with Stratford at Lord Mountjoy's, and I will tell you no
more at present, guess for why; because I am going to mind things, and
mighty affairs, not your nasty First-Fruits--I let them alone till Mr.
Harley gets the Queen's letter--but other things of greater moment, that
you shall know one day, when the ducks have eaten up all the dirt. So
sit still a while just by me, while I am studying, and don't say a word,
I charge you, and when I am going to bed, I will take you along, and
talk with you a little while, so there, sit there.--Come then, let us
see what we have to say to these saucy brats, that will not let us go
sleep at past eleven. Why, I am a little impatient to know how you do;
but that I take it for a standing maxim, that when you are silent, all
is pretty well, because that is the way I will deal with you; and if
there was anything you ought to know now, I would write by the first
post, although I had written but the day before. Remember this, young
women; and God Almighty preserve you both, and make us happy together;
and tell me how accompts stand between us, that you may be paid long
before it is due, not to want. I will return no more money while I stay,
so that you need not be in pain to be paid; but let me know at least a
month before you can want. Observe this, d'ye hear, little dear sirrahs,
and love Presto, as Presto loves MD, etc.

24. You will have a merrier Christmas Eve than we here. I went up to
Court before church; and in one of the rooms, there being but little
company, a fellow in a red coat without a sword came up to me, and,
after words of course, asked me how the ladies did? I asked, "What
ladies?" He said, "Mrs. Dingley and Mrs. Johnson." "Very well," said I,
"when I heard from them last: and pray when came you from thence,
sir?" He said, "I never was in Ireland"; and just at that word Lord
Winchelsea(1) comes up to me, and the man went off: as I went out I saw
him again, and recollected him, it was Vedeau(2) with a pox: I then went
and made my apologies, that my head was full of something I had to say
to Lord Winchelsea, etc., and I asked after his wife, and so all was
well; and he inquired after my lodging, because he had some favour to
desire of me in Ireland, to recommend somebody to somebody, I know not
what it is. When I came from church, I went up to Court again, where Sir
Edmond Bacon(3) told me the bad news from Spain,(4) which you will hear
before this reaches you; as we have it now, we are undone there, and
it was odd to see the whole countenances of the Court changed so in two
hours. Lady Mountjoy(5) carried me home to dinner, where I stayed not
long after, and came home early, and now am got into bed, for you must
always write to your MD's in bed, that is a maxim.

     Mr. White and Mr. Red,
     Write to MD when abed;
     Mr. Black and Mr. Brown,
     Write to MD when you're down;
     Mr. Oak and Mr. Willow,
     Write to MD on your pillow.--

What is this? faith, I smell fire; what can it be? this house has a
thousand stinks in it. I think to leave it on Thursday, and lodge over
the way. Faith, I must rise, and look at my chimney, for the smell grows
stronger, stay--I have been up, and in my room, and found all safe, only
a mouse within the fender to warm himself, which I could not catch.
I smelt nothing there, but now in my bed-cha