 all parents are limited in their
expenses by the law.  For the Lilliputians think nothing can be more
unjust, than for people, in subservience to their own appetites, to bring
children into the world, and leave the burthen of supporting them on the
public.  As to persons of quality, they give security to appropriate a
certain sum for each child, suitable to their condition; and these funds
are always managed with good husbandry and the most exact justice.

The cottagers and labourers keep their children at home, their business
being only to till and cultivate the earth, and therefore their education
is of little consequence to the public: but the old and diseased among
them, are supported by hospitals; for begging is a trade unknown in this
empire.

And here it may, perhaps, divert the curious reader, to give some account
of my domestics, and my manner of living in this country, during a
residence of nine months, and thirteen days.  Having a head mechanically
turned, and being likewise forced by necessity, I had made for myself a
table and chair convenient enough, out of the largest trees in the royal
park.  Two hundred sempstresses were employed to make me shirts, and
linen for my bed and table, all of the strongest and coarsest kind they
could get; which, however, they were forced to quilt together in several
folds, for the thickest was some degrees finer than lawn.  Their linen is
usually three inches wide, and three feet make a piece.  The sempstresses
took my measure as I lay on the ground, one standing at my neck, and
another at my mid-leg, with a strong cord extended, that each held by the
end, while a third measured the length of the cord with a rule of an inch
long.  Then they measured my right thumb, and desired no more; for by a
mathematical computation, that twice round the thumb is once round the
wrist, and so on to the neck and the waist, and by the help of my old
shirt, which I displayed on the ground before them for a pattern, they
fitted me exactly.  Three hundred tailors were employed in the same
manner to make me clothes; but they had another contrivance for taking my
measure.  I kneeled down, and they raised a ladder from the ground to my
neck; upon this ladder one of them mounted, and let fall a plumb-line
from my collar to the floor, which just answered the length of my coat:
but my waist and arms I measured myself.  When my clothes were finished,
which was done in my house (for the largest of theirs would not have been
able to hold them), they looked like the patch-work made by the ladies in
England, only that mine were all of a colour.

I had three hundred cooks to dress my victuals, in little convenient huts
built about my house, where they and their families lived, and prepared
me two dishes a-piece.  I took up twenty waiters in my hand, and placed
them on the table: a hundred more attended below on the ground, some with
dishes of meat, and some with barrels of wine and other liquors slung on
their shoulders; all which the waiters above drew up, as I wanted, in a
very ingenious manner, by certain cords, as we draw the bucket up a well
in Europe.  A dish of their meat was a good mouthful, and a barrel of
their liquor a reasonable draught.  Their mutton yields to ours, but
their beef is excellent.  I have had a sirloin so large, that I have been
forced to make three bites of it; but this is rare.  My servants were
astonished to see me eat it, bones and all, as in our country we do the
leg of a lark.  Their geese and turkeys I usually ate at a mouthful, and
I confess they far exceed ours.  Of their smaller fowl I could take up
twenty or thirty at the end of my knife.

One day his imperial majesty, being informed of my way of living, desired
“that himself and his royal consort, with the young princes of the blood
of both sexes, might have the happiness,” as he was pleased to call it,
“of dining with me.”  They came accordingly, and I placed them in chairs
of state, upon my table, just over against me, with their guards about
them.  Flimnap, the lord high treasurer, attended there likewise with his
white staff; and I observed he often looked on me with a sour
countenance, which I would not seem to regard, but ate more than usual,
in honour to my dear country, as well as to fill the court with
admiration.  I have some private reasons to believe, that this visit from
his majesty gave Flimnap an opportunity of doing me ill offices to his
master.  That minister had always been my secret enemy, though he
outwardly caressed me more than was usual to the moroseness of his
nature.  He represented to the emperor “the low condition of his
treasury; that he was forced to take up money at a great discount; that
exchequer bills would not circulate under nine per cent. below par; that
I had cost his majesty above a million and a half of _sprugs_” (their
greatest gold coin, about the bigness of a spangle) “and, upon the whole,
that it would be advisable in the emperor to take the first fair occasion
of dismissing me.”

I am here obliged to vindicate the reputation of an excellent lady, who
was an innocent sufferer upo