scene; for indeed all reasons for
real grief belong to her; nor is it possible for anybody to be a greater
loser in all regards. She has moved my very soul. The lodging was
inconvenient, and they would have removed her to another; but I would
not suffer it, because it had no room backward, and she must have been
tortured with the noise of the Grub Street screamers mention(ing) her
husband's murder to her ears.

I believe you have heard the story of my escape, in opening the bandbox
sent to Lord Treasurer.(9) The prints have told a thousand lies of it;
but at last we gave them a true account of it at length, printed in the
evening;(10) only I would not suffer them to name me, having been so
often named before, and teased to death with questions. I wonder how I
came to have so much presence of mind, which is usually not my talent;
but so it pleased God, and I saved myself and him; for there was a
bullet apiece. A gentleman told me that if I had been killed, the Whigs
would have called it a judgment, because the barrels were of inkhorns,
with which I had done them so much mischief. There was a pure Grub
Street of it, full of lies and inconsistencies.(11) I do not like these
things at all, and I wish myself more and more among my willows.(12)
There is a devilish spirit among people, and the Ministry must exert
themselves, or sink. Nite dee sollahs, I'll go seep.(13)

16. I thought to have finished this yesterday; but was too much
disturbed. I sent a letter early this morning to Lady Masham, to beg
her to write some comforting words to the poor Duchess. I dined to-(day)
with Lady Masham at Kensington, where she is expecting these two months
to lie in. She has promised me to get the Queen to write to the Duchess
kindly on this occasion; and to-morrow I will beg Lord Treasurer to
visit and comfort her. I have been with her two hours again, and find
her worse: her violences not so frequent, but her melancholy more formal
and settled. She has abundance of wit and spirit; about thirty-three
years old; handsome and airy, and seldom spared anybody that gave her
the least provocation; by which she had many enemies and few friends.
Lady Orkney, her sister-in-law, is come to town on this occasion, and
has been to see her, and behaved herself with great humanity. They
have been always very ill together, and the poor Duchess could not have
patience when people told her I went often to Lady Orkney's. But I am
resolved to make them friends; for the Duchess is now no more the object
of envy, and must learn humility from the severest master, Affliction.
I design to make the Ministry put out a proclamation (if it can be found
proper) against that villain Maccartney. What shall we do with these
murderers? I cannot end this letter to-night, and there is no occasion;
for I cannot send it till Tuesday, and the crowner's inquest on the
Duke's body is to be to-morrow, and I shall know more. But what care oo
for all this? Iss, poo MD im sorry for poo Pdfr's(14) friends; and this
is a very surprising event. 'Tis late, and I'll go to bed. This looks
like journals. Nite.

17. I was to-day at noon with the Duchess of Hamilton again, after I had
been with Lady Orkney, and charged her to be kind to her sister in her
affliction. The Duchess told me Lady Orkney had been with her, and that
she did not treat her as gently as she ought. They hate one another, but
I will try to patch it up. I have been drawing up a paragraph for the
Postboy, to be out to-morrow, and as malicious as possible, and
very proper for Abel Roper,(15) the printer of it. I dined at Lord
Treasurer's at six in the evening, which is his usual hour of returning
from Windsor: he promises to visit the Duchess to-morrow, and says he
has a message to her from the Queen. Thank God. I have stayed till past
one with him. So nite deelest MD.(16)

18. The Committee of Council is to sit this afternoon upon the affair
of the Duke of Hamilton's murder, and I hope a proclamation will be out
against Maccartney. I was just now ('tis now noon) with the Duchess, to
let her know Lord Treasurer will see her. She is mightily out of order.
The jury have not yet brought in their verdict upon the crowner's
inquest. We suspect Maccartney stabbed the Duke while he was fighting.
The Queen and Lord Treasurer are in great concern at this event. I dine
to-day again with Lord Treasurer; but must send this to the post-office
before, because else I shall not have time; he usually keeping me so
late. Ben Tooke bid me write to DD to send her certificate, for it is
high time it should be sent, he says. Pray make Parvisol write to me,
and send me a general account of my affairs; and let him know I shall
be over in spring, and that by all means he sells the horses. Prior has
kissed the Queen's hand, and will return to France in a few days, and
Lord Strafford to Holland; and now the King of Spain has renounced his
pretensions to France, the peace must follow very soon unavoidably. You
must no more call Philip, Duke of Anjou, for we now acknowledge him
King of Spain. Dr. Pratt tells me you are all mad in Ireland with your
playhouse 