ll
volume: it seems the author is too proud to have them printed by
subscription, though his friends offered, they say, to make it worth
five hundred pounds to him. The Spectators are likewise printing in a
larger and a smaller volume, so I believe they are going to leave
them off, and indeed people grow weary of them, though they are often
prettily written. We have had no news for me to send you now towards
the end of my letter. The Queen has the gout a little: I hoped the Lord
Treasurer would have had it too, but Radcliffe told me yesterday it was
the rheumatism in his knee and foot; however, he mends, and I hope will
be abroad in a short time. I am told they design giving away several
employments before the Parliament sits, which will be the thirteenth
instant. I either do not like, or not understand this policy; and if
Lord Treasurer does not mend soon, they must give them just before the
session. But he is the greatest procrastinator in the world.

3. A fine day this, and I walked a pretty deal. I stuffed the
Secretary's pockets with papers, which he must read and settle at
Hampton Court, where he went to-day, and stays some time. They have no
lodgings for me there, so I can't go, for the town is small, chargeable,
and inconvenient. Lord Treasurer had a very ill night last night, with
much pain in his knee and foot, but is easier to-day.--And so I went to
visit Prior about some business, and so he was not within, and so Sir
Andrew Fountaine made me dine to-day again with Mrs. Van, and I came
home soon, remembering this must go to-night, and that I had a letter of
MD's to answer. O Lord, where is it? let me see; so, so, here it is. You
grudge writing so soon. Pox on that bill! the woman would have me manage
that money for her. I do not know what to do with it now I have it: I am
like the unprofitable steward in the Gospel: I laid it up in a napkin;
there thou hast what is thine own, etc. Well, well, I know of your new
Mayor. (I'll tell you a pun: a fishmonger owed a man two crowns; so he
sent him a piece of bad ling and a tench, and then said he was paid: how
is that now? find it out; for I won't tell it you: which of you finds
it out?) Well, but as I was saying, what care I for your Mayor? I
fancy Ford may tell Forbes right about my returning to Ireland before
Christmas, or soon after. I'm sorry you did not go on with your story
about Pray God you be John; I never heard it in my life, and wonder what
it can be.--Ah, Stella, faith, you leaned upon your Bible to think what
to say when you writ that. Yes, that story of the Secretary's making me
an example is true; "never heard it before;" why, how could you hear
it? is it possible to tell you the hundredth part of what passes in our
companies here? The Secretary is as easy with me as Mr. Addison was. I
have often thought what a splutter Sir William Temple makes about being
Secretary of State:(11) I think Mr. St. John the greatest young man
I ever knew; wit, capacity, beauty, quickness of apprehension, good
learning, and an excellent taste; the best orator in the House of
Commons, admirable conversation, good nature, and good manners;
generous, and a despiser of money. His only fault is talking to his
friends in way of complaint of too great a load of business, which looks
a little like affectation; and he endeavours too much to mix the fine
gentleman and man of pleasure with the man of business. What truth and
sincerity he may have I know not: he is now but thirty-two, and has been
Secretary above a year. Is not all this extraordinary? how he stands
with the Queen and Lord Treasurer I have told you before. This is his
character; and I believe you will be diverted by knowing it. I writ to
the Archbishop of Dublin, Bishop of Cloyne(12) and of Clogher together,
five weeks ago from Windsor: I hope they had my letters; pray know if
Clogher had his.--Fig for your physician and his advice, Madam Dingley:
if I grow worse, I will; otherwise I will trust to temperance and
exercise: your fall of the leaf; what care I when the leaves fall? I am
sorry to see them fall with all my heart; but why should I take physic
because leaves fall off from trees? that won't hinder them from falling.
If a man falls from a horse, must I take physic for that?--This arguing
makes you mad; but it is true right reason, not to be disproved.--I
am glad at heart to hear poor Stella is better; use exercise and walk,
spend pattens and spare potions, wear out clogs and waste claret. Have
you found out my pun of the fishmonger? don't read a word more till you
have got it. And Stella is handsome again, you say? and is she fat? I
have sent to Leigh the set of Examiners: the first thirteen were written
by several hands, some good, some bad; the next three-and-thirty were
all by one hand, that makes forty-six: then that author,(13) whoever he
was, laid it down on purpose to confound guessers; and the last six were
written by a woman.(14) Then there is an account of Guiscard by the same
woman, but the facts sent by Presto. Then an answer to the letter to the
Lords about Gregg by Presto; Prior's Journey by Presto; Vi