o keep it up; and he is not able to make those removes he would,
and oblige his friends; and I doubt too(19) he does not take care enough
about it, or rather cannot do all himself, and will not employ others:
which is his great fault, as I have often told you. 'Tis late. Nite, MD.

5. I wish you a merry Lent. I hate Lent; I hate different diets, and
furmity and butter, and herb porridge; and sour devout faces of people
who only put on religion for seven weeks. I was at the Secretary's
office this morning; and there a gentleman brought me two letters, dated
last October; one from the Bishop of Clogher, t'other from Walls. The
gentleman is called Colonel Newburgh.(20) I think you mentioned him to
me some time ago; he has business in the House of Lords. I will do
him what service I can. The Representation of the House of Commons is
printed:(21) I have not seen it yet; it is plaguy severe, they say. I
dined with Dr. Arbuthnot, and had a true Lenten dinner, not in point of
victuals, but spleen; for his wife and a child or two were sick in the
house, and that was full as mortifying as fish. We have had fine mighty
cold frosty weather for some days past. I hope you take the advantage
of it, and walk now and then. You never answer that part of my letters
where I desire you to walk. I must keep my breath to cool my Lenten
porridge. Tell Jemmy Leigh that his boy that robbed him now appears
about the town: Patrick has seen him once or twice. I knew nothing of
his being robbed till Patrick told me he had seen the boy. I wish it
had been Sterne that had been robbed, to be revenged for the box that he
lost,(22) and be p-xed to him. Nite, MD.

6. I hear Mr. Prior has suffered by Stratford's breaking. I was
yesterday to see Prior, who is not well, and I thought he looked
melancholy. He can ill afford to lose money. I walked before dinner
in the Mall a good while with Lord Arran and Lord Dupplin, two of my
brothers, and then we went to dinner, where the Duke of Beaufort was our
President. We were but eleven to-day. We are now in all nine lords and
ten commoners. The Duke of Beaufort had the confidence to propose his
brother-in-law, the Earl of Danby,(23) to be a member; but I opposed
it so warmly that it was waived. Danby is not above twenty, and we will
have no more boys, and we want but two to make up our number. I stayed
till eight, and then we all went away soberly. The Duke of Ormond's
treat last week cost 20 pounds, though it was only four dishes and four,
without a dessert; and I bespoke it in order to be cheap. Yet I could
not prevail to change the house. Lord Treasurer is in a rage with us for
being so extravagant: and the wine was not reckoned neither; for that
is always brought by him that is President. Lord Orrery(24) is to be
President next week; and I will see whether it cannot be cheaper; or
else we will leave the house...(25) Lord Masham made me go home with him
to-night to eat boiled oysters. Take oysters, wash them clean; that is,
wash their shells clean; then put your oysters into an earthen pot,
with their hollow sides down, then put this pot into a great kettle
with water, and so let them boil. Your oysters are boiled in their own
liquor, and not mixed water. Lord Treasurer was not with us; he was very
ill to-day with a swimming in the head, and is gone home to be cupped,
and sent to desire Lady Masham to excuse him to the Queen. Nite, dee MD.

7. I was to-day at the House of Lords about a friend's Bill. Then I
crossed the water at Westminster Stairs to Southwark, went through St.
George's Fields to the Mint, which is the dominion of the King's(26)
Bench Prison, where Stratford lodges in a blind alley, and writ to me to
come to him; but he was gone to the 'Change. I thought he had
something to say to me about his own affairs. I found him at his usual
coffee-house, and went to his own lodgings, and dined with him and
his wife, and other company. His business was only to desire I would
intercede with the Ministry about his brother-in-law, Ben Burton,(27)
of Dublin, the banker, who is likely to come into trouble, as we hear,
about spreading false Whiggish news. I hate Burton, and told Stratford
so; and I will advise the Duke of Ormond to make use of it, to keep
the rogue in awe. Mrs. Stratford tells me her husband's creditors have
consented to give him liberty to get up his debts abroad; and she hopes
he will pay them all. He was cheerfuller than I have seen him this great
while. I have walked much today.--Night, deelest logues.

8. This day twelvemonth Mr. Harley was stabbed; but he is ill, and takes
physic to-day, I hear ('tis now morning), and cannot have the Cabinet
Council with him, as he intended, nor me to say grace. I am going to see
him. Pray read the Representation; 'tis the finest that ever was writ.
Some of it is Pdfr's style, but not very much. This is the day of the
Queen's accession to the Crown; so it is a great day. I am going to
Court, and will dine with Lord Masham; but I must go this moment to see
the Secretary about some businesses; so I will seal up this, and put
it in the post my own self. Farewell, d