o: I will have one more tug for
it.--As to what you say of Goodman Peasly and Isaac,(11) I answer as I
did before. Fie, child, you must not give yourself the way to believe
any such thing: and afterwards, only for curiosity, you may tell me
how these things are approved, and how you like them; and whether they
instruct you in the present course of affairs, and whether they are
printed in your town, or only sent from hence.--Sir Andrew Fountaine is
recovered; so take your sorrow again, but don't keep it, fling it to the
dogs. And does little MD walk indeed?--I'm glad of it at heart.--Yes, we
have done with the plague here: it was very saucy in you to pretend to
have it before your betters. Your intelligence that the story is false
about the officers forced to sell,(12) is admirable. You may see them
all three here every day, no more in the army than you. Twelve shillings
for mending the strong box; that is, for putting a farthing's worth of
iron on a hinge, and gilding it; give him six shillings, and I'll pay
it, and never employ him or his again.--No indeed, I put off preaching
as much as I can. I am upon another foot: nobody doubts here whether
I can preach, and you are fools.--The account you give of that weekly
paper(13) agrees with us here. Mr. Prior was like to be insulted in the
street for being supposed the author of it; but one of the last papers
cleared him. Nobody knows who it is, but those few in the secret, I
suppose the Ministry and the printer.--Poor Stella's eyes! God bless
them, and send them better. Pray spare them, and write not above two
lines a day in broad daylight. How does Stella look, Madam Dingley?
Pretty well, a handsome young woman still. Will she pass in a crowd?
Will she make a figure in a country church?--Stay a little, fair ladies.
I this minute sent Patrick to Sterne: he brings back word that your box
is very safe with one Mr. Earl's sister in Chester, and that Colonel
Edgworth's widow(14) goes for Ireland on Monday next, and will receive
the box at Chester, and deliver it you safe: so there are some hopes
now.--Well, let us go on to your letter.--The warrant is passed for the
First-Fruits. The Queen does not send a letter; but a patent will be
drawn here, and that will take up time. Mr. Harley of late has said
nothing of presenting me to the Queen: I was overseen(15) when I
mentioned it to you. He has such a weight of affairs on him, that he
cannot mind all; but he talked of it three or four times to me, long
before I dropped it to you. What, is not Mrs. Walls' business over
yet? I had hopes she was up and well, and the child dead before this
time.--You did right, at last, to send me your accompts; but I did not
stay for them, I thank you. I hope you have your bill sent in my last,
and there will be eight pounds' interest soon due from Hawkshaw: pray
look at his bond. I hope you are good managers; and that, when I say so,
Stella won't think I intend she should grudge herself wine. But going to
those expensive lodgings requires some fund. I wish you had stayed till
I came over, for some reasons. That Frenchwoman(16) will be grumbling
again in a little time: and if you are invited anywhere to the country,
it will vex you to pay in absence; and the country may be necessary for
poor Stella's health: but do as you like, and do not blame Presto.--Oh,
but you are telling your reasons.--Well, I have read them; do as you
please.--Yes, Raymond says he must stay longer than he thought, because
he cannot settle his affairs. M---- is in the country at some friend's,
comes to town in spring, and then goes to settle in Herefordshire. Her
husband is a surly, ill-natured brute, and cares not she should see
anybody. O Lord, see how I blundered, and left two lines short; it was
that ugly score in the paper(17) that made me mistake.--I believe you
lie about the story of the fire, only to make it more odd. Bernage must
go to Spain; and I will see to recommend him to the Duke of Argyle, his
General, when I see the Duke next: but the officers tell me it would be
dishonourable in the last degree for him to sell now, and he would never
be preferred in the army; so that, unless he designs to leave it for
good and all, he must go. Tell him so, and that I would write if I knew
where to direct to him; which I have said fourscore times already. I had
rather anything almost than that you should strain yourselves to send
a letter when it is inconvenient; we have settled that matter already.
I'll write when I can, and so shall MD; and upon occasions extraordinary
I will write, though it be a line; and when we have not letters soon, we
agree that all things are well; and so that's settled for ever, and
so hold your tongue.--Well, you shall have your pins; but for candles'
ends, I cannot promise, because I burn them to the stumps; besides, I
remember what Stella told Dingley about them many years ago, and she
may think the same thing of me.--And Dingley shall have her hinged
spectacles.--Poor dear Stella, how durst you write those two lines by
candlelight? bang your bones! Faith, this letter shall go to-morrow, I
think, and th