e about 10 degrees southward of the Cape of Good
Hope, or about 45 degrees southern latitude, as I gathered from some
general words I overheard among them, being I supposed to the south-east
in their intended voyage to Madagascar.  And although this were little
better than conjecture, yet I resolved to steer my course eastward,
hoping to reach the south-west coast of New Holland, and perhaps some
such island as I desired lying westward of it.  The wind was full west,
and by six in the evening I computed I had gone eastward at least
eighteen leagues; when I spied a very small island about half a league
off, which I soon reached.  It was nothing but a rock, with one creek
naturally arched by the force of tempests.  Here I put in my canoe, and
climbing a part of the rock, I could plainly discover land to the east,
extending from south to north.  I lay all night in my canoe; and
repeating my voyage early in the morning, I arrived in seven hours to the
south-east point of New Holland.  This confirmed me in the opinion I have
long entertained, that the maps and charts place this country at least
three degrees more to the east than it really is; which thought I
communicated many years ago to my worthy friend, Mr. Herman Moll, and
gave him my reasons for it, although he has rather chosen to follow other
authors.

I saw no inhabitants in the place where I landed, and being unarmed, I
was afraid of venturing far into the country.  I found some shellfish on
the shore, and ate them raw, not daring to kindle a fire, for fear of
being discovered by the natives.  I continued three days feeding on
oysters and limpets, to save my own provisions; and I fortunately found a
brook of excellent water, which gave me great relief.

On the fourth day, venturing out early a little too far, I saw twenty or
thirty natives upon a height not above five hundred yards from me.  They
were stark naked, men, women, and children, round a fire, as I could
discover by the smoke.  One of them spied me, and gave notice to the
rest; five of them advanced toward me, leaving the women and children at
the fire.  I made what haste I could to the shore, and, getting into my
canoe, shoved off: the savages, observing me retreat, ran after me: and
before I could get far enough into the sea, discharged an arrow which
wounded me deeply on the inside of my left knee: I shall carry the mark
to my grave.  I apprehended the arrow might be poisoned, and paddling out
of the reach of their darts (being a calm day), I made a shift to suck
the wound, and dress it as well as I could.

I was at a loss what to do, for I durst not return to the same
landing-place, but stood to the north, and was forced to paddle, for the
wind, though very gentle, was against me, blowing north-west.  As I was
looking about for a secure landing-place, I saw a sail to the
north-north-east, which appearing every minute more visible, I was in
some doubt whether I should wait for them or not; but at last my
detestation of the _Yahoo_ race prevailed: and turning my canoe, I sailed
and paddled together to the south, and got into the same creek whence I
set out in the morning, choosing rather to trust myself among these
barbarians, than live with European _Yahoos_.  I drew up my canoe as
close as I could to the shore, and hid myself behind a stone by the
little brook, which, as I have already said, was excellent water.

The ship came within half a league of this creek, and sent her long boat
with vessels to take in fresh water (for the place, it seems, was very
well known); but I did not observe it, till the boat was almost on shore;
and it was too late to seek another hiding-place.  The seamen at their
landing observed my canoe, and rummaging it all over, easily conjectured
that the owner could not be far off.  Four of them, well armed, searched
every cranny and lurking-hole, till at last they found me flat on my face
behind the stone.  They gazed awhile in admiration at my strange uncouth
dress; my coat made of skins, my wooden-soled shoes, and my furred
stockings; whence, however, they concluded, I was not a native of the
place, who all go naked.  One of the seamen, in Portuguese, bid me rise,
and asked who I was.  I understood that language very well, and getting
upon my feet, said, “I was a poor _Yahoo_ banished from the _Houyhnhnms_,
and desired they would please to let me depart.”  They admired to hear me
answer them in their own tongue, and saw by my complexion I must be a
European; but were at a loss to know what I meant by _Yahoos_ and
_Houyhnhnms_; and at the same time fell a-laughing at my strange tone in
speaking, which resembled the neighing of a horse.  I trembled all the
while betwixt fear and hatred.  I again desired leave to depart, and was
gently moving to my canoe; but they laid hold of me, desiring to know,
“what country I was of? whence I came?” with many other questions.  I
told them “I was born in England, whence I came about five years ago, and
then their country and ours were at peace.  I therefore hoped they would
not treat me as an enemy, since I meant them no harm, but was a poor
_Yah