he was at his country house, and returned while I was
there, and had not heard of it, and he took it very well. I am now come
home before six, and find a packet from the Bishop of Clogher, with one
enclosed to the Duke of Ormond, which is ten days earlier dated than
another I had from Parvisol; however, 'tis no matter, for the Duke
has already disposed of the Vice-Chancellorship to the Archbishop of
Tuam,(53) and I could not help it, for it is a thing wholly you know in
the Duke's power; and I find the Bishop has enemies about the Duke. I
write this while Patrick is folding up my scarf, and doing up the fire
(for I keep a fire, it costs me twelvepence a week); and so be quiet
till I am gone to bed, and then sit down by me a little, and we will
talk a few words more. Well; now MD is at my bedside; and now what shall
we say? How does Mrs. Stoyte? What had the Dean for supper? How much did
Mrs. Walls win? Poor Lady Shelburne: well, go get you to bed, sirrahs.

20. Morning. I was up this morning early, and shaved by candlelight, and
write this by the fireside. Poor Raymond just came in and took his leave
of me; he is summoned by high order from his wife, but pretends he has
had enough of London. I was a little melancholy to part with him; he
goes to Bristol, where they are to be with his merchant brother, and now
thinks of staying till May; so she must be brought to bed in England. He
was so easy and manageable, that I almost repent I suffered him to see
me so seldom. But he is gone, and will save Patrick some lies in a week:
Patrick is grown admirable at it, and will make his fortune. How now,
sirrah, must I write in a morning to your impudence?

     Stay till night,
     And then I'll write,
     In black and white,
     By candlelight,
     Of wax so bright,
     It helps the sight--
     A bite, a bite!

Marry come up, Mistress Boldface.--At night. Dr. Raymond came back, and
goes to-morrow. I did not come home till eleven, and found him here to
take leave of me. I went to the Court of Requests, thinking to find Mr.
Harley and dine with him, and refused Henley, and everybody, and at last
knew not where to go, and met Jemmy Leigh by chance, and he was just in
the same way, so I dined at his lodgings on a beef-steak, and drank
your health; then left him and went to the tavern with Ben Tooke and
Portlack, the Duke of Ormond's secretary, drinking nasty white wine till
eleven. I am sick, and ashamed of it, etc.

21. I met that beast Ferris, Lord Berkeley's(54) steward formerly; I
walked with him a turn in the Park, and that scoundrel dog is as happy
as an emperor, has married a wife with a considerable estate in land and
houses about this town, and lives at his ease at Hammersmith. See your
confounded sect!(55) Well; I had the same luck to-day with Mr. Harley;
'twas a lovely day, and went by water into the City, and dined with
Stratford at a merchant's house, and walked home with as great a dunce
as Ferris, I mean honest Colonel Caulfeild,(56) and came home by eight,
and now am in bed, and going to sleep for a wager, and will send this
letter on Saturday, and so; but first I will wish you a merry Christmas
and a happy New Year, and pray God we may never keep them asunder again.

22. Morning. I am going now to Mr. Harley's levee on purpose to vex him;
I will say I had no other way of seeing him, etc. Patrick says it is a
dark morning, and that the Duke of Argyle(57) is to be knighted to-day;
the booby means installed at Windsor. But I must rise, for this is a
shaving-day, and Patrick says there is a good fire; I wish MD were by
it, or I by MD's.--At night. I forgot to tell you, Madam Dingley, that
I paid nine shillings for your glass and spectacles, of which three were
for the Bishop's case: I am sorry I did not buy you such another case;
but if you like it, I will bring one over with me; pray tell me: the
glass to read was four shillings, the spectacles two. And have you had
your chocolate? Leigh says he sent the petticoat by one Mr. Spencer.
Pray have you no further commissions for me? I paid the glass-man but
last night, and he would have made me a present of the microscope worth
thirty shillings, and would have sent it home along with me; I thought
the deuce was in the man: he said I could do him more service than that
was worth, etc. I refused his present, but promised him all service
I could do him; and so now I am obliged in honour to recommend him to
everybody.--At night. I went to Mr. Harley's levee; he came and asked
me what I had to do there, and bid me come and dine with him on a family
dinner; which I did, and it was the first time I ever saw his lady(58)
and daughter;(59) at five my Lord Keeper(60) came in: I told Mr. Harley,
he had formerly presented me to Sir Simon Harcourt, but now must to my
Lord Keeper; so he laughed, etc.

23. Morning. This letter goes to-night without fail; I hope there is
none from you yet at the Coffee-house; I will send and see by and by,
and let you know, and so and so. Patrick goes to see for a letter: what
will you lay, is there one from MD or no? No, I say; done for sixpence.
Why has th