ed: I believe it will come to nothing. Mr. Secretary frets at
their tediousness, but hopes great things from it, though he owns four
or five princes are in the secret; and, for that reason, I fear it is no
secret to France. There are eight regiments; and the Admiral(3) is your
Walker's brother the midwife.

30. Morn. I am here in a pretty pickle: it rains hard; and the cunning
natives of Chelsea have outwitted me, and taken up all the three stage
coaches. What shall I do? I must go to town: this is your fault. I
cannot walk: I will borrow a coat. This is the blind side of my lodging
out of town; I must expect such inconveniences as these. Faith, I'll
walk in the rain. Morrow.--At night. I got a gentleman's chaise by
chance, and so went to town for a shilling, and lie this night in town.
I was at the election of lads at Westminster to-day, and a very silly
thing it is; but they say there will be fine doings to-morrow. I dined
with Dr. Freind,(4) the second master of the school, with a dozen
parsons and others: Prior would make me stay. Mr. Harley is to hear the
election to-morrow; and we are all to dine with tickets, and hear fine
speeches. 'Tis terrible rainy weather again: I lie at a friend's in the
City.

May 1. I wish you a merry May Day, and a thousand more. I was baulked at
Westminster; I came too late: I heard no speeches nor verses. They would
not let me in to their dining-place for want of a ticket; and I
would not send in for one, because Mr. Harley excused his coming, and
Atterbury was not there; and I cared not for the rest: and so my friend
Lewis and I dined with Kitt Musgrave,(5) if you know such a man: and,
the weather mending, I walked gravely home this evening; and so I design
to walk and walk till I am well: I fancy myself a little better already.
How does poor Stella? Dingley is well enough. Go, get you gone, naughty
girl, you are well enough. O dear MD, contrive to have some share of
the country this spring: go to Finglas, or Donnybrook, or Clogher, or
Killala, or Lowth. Have you got your box yet? Yes, yes. Do not write to
me again till this letter goes: I must make haste, that I may write two
for one. Go to the Bath: I hope you are now at the Bath, if you had a
mind to go; or go to Wexford: do something for your living. Have
you given up my lodging, according to order? I have had just now a
compliment from Dean Atterbury's lady,(6) to command the garden and
library, and whatever the house affords. I lodge just over against them;
but the Dean is in town with his Convocation: so I have my Dean and
Prolocutor as well as you, young women, though he has not so good wine,
nor so much meat.

2. A fine day, but begins to grow a little warm; and that makes your
little fat Presto sweat in the forehead. Pray, are not the fine buns
sold here in our town; was it not Rrrrrrrrrare Chelsea buns?(7) I bought
one to-day in my walk; it cost me a penny; it was stale, and I did not
like it, as the man said, etc. Sir Andrew Fountaine and I dined at
Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and had a flask of my Florence, which lies in their
cellar; and so I came home gravely, and saw nobody of consequence
to-day. I am very easy here, nobody plaguing me in a morning; and
Patrick saves many a score lies. I sent over to Mrs Atterbury to
know whether I might wait on her; but she is gone a visiting: we have
exchanged some compliments, but I have not seen her yet. We have no news
in our town.

3. I did not go to town to-day, it was so terrible rainy; nor have I
stirred out of my room till eight this evening, when I crossed the way
to see Mrs. Atterbury, and thank her for her civilities. She would needs
send me some veal, and small beer, and ale, to-day at dinner; and I have
lived a scurvy, dull, splenetic day, for want of MD: I often thought how
happy I could have been, had it rained eight thousand times more, if MD
had been with a body. My Lord Rochester(8) is dead this morning; they
say at one o'clock; and I hear he died suddenly. To-morrow I shall know
more. He is a great loss to us: I cannot think who will succeed him as
Lord President. I have been writing a long letter to Lord Peterborow,
and am dull.

4. I dined to-day at Lord Shelburne's, where Lady Kerry(9) made me a
present of four India handkerchiefs, which I have a mind to keep
for little MD, only that I had rather, etc. I have been a mighty
handkerchief-monger, and have bought abundance of snuff ones since I
have left off taking snuff. And I am resolved, when I come over,
MD shall be acquainted with Lady Kerry: we have struck up a mighty
friendship; and she has much better sense than any other lady of
your country. We are almost in love with one another: but she is most
egregiously ugly; but perfectly well-bred, and governable as I please. I
am resolved, when I come, to keep no company but MD: you know I kept my
resolution last time; and, except Mr. Addison, conversed with none but
you and your club of deans and Stoytes. 'Tis three weeks, young women,
since I had a letter from you; and yet, methinks, I would not have
another for five pounds till this is gone; and yet I send every day to
the Co