 not upon the
road going or coming to or from PMD. If the Queen knew it, she would
give us a pension; for it is we bring good luck to their post-boys and
their packets; else they would break their necks and sink. But, an old
saying and a true one:

     Be it snow, or storm, or hail,
     PMD's letters never fail;
     Cross winds may sometimes make them tarry,
     But PMD's letters can't miscarry.

Terrible rain to-day, but it cleared up at night enough to save my
twelvepence coming home. Lord Treasurer is much better this evening.
I hate to have him ill, he is so confoundedly careless. I won't answer
your letter yet, so be satisfied.

24. I called at Lord Treasurer's to-day at noon: he was eating some
broth in his bed-chamber, undressed, with a thousand papers about him.
He has a little fever upon him, and his eye terribly bloodshot; yet he
dressed himself and went out to the Treasury. He told me he had a letter
from a lady with a complaint against me; it was from Mrs. Cutts, a
sister of Lord Cutts, who writ to him that I had abused her brother:(1)
you remember the "Salamander," it is printed in the Miscellany. I told
my lord that I would never regard complaints, and that I expected,
whenever he received any against me, he would immediately put them into
the fire, and forget them, else I should have no quiet. I had a little
turn in my head this morning; which, though it did not last above a
moment, yet being of the true sort, has made me as weak as a dog all
this day. 'Tis the first I have had this half-year. I shall take my
pills if I hear of it again. I dined at Lady Mountjoy's with Harry
Coote,(2) and went to see Lord Pembroke upon his coming to town.--The
Whig party are furious against a peace, and every day some ballad comes
out reflecting on the Ministry on that account. The Secretary St. John
has seized on a dozen booksellers and publishers into his messengers'
hands.(3) Some of the foreign Ministers have published the preliminaries
agreed on here between France and England; and people rail at them as
insufficient to treat a peace upon; but the secret is, that the French
have agreed to articles much more important, which our Ministers
have not communicated, and the people, who think they know all, are
discontented that there is no more. This was an inconvenience I foretold
to the Secretary, but we could contrive no way to fence against it. So
there's politics for you.

25. The Queen is at Hampton Court: she went on Tuesday in that terrible
rain. I dined with Lewis at his lodgings, to despatch some business we
had. I sent this morning and evening to Lord Treasurer, and he is much
worse by going out; I am in pain about evening. He has sent for Dr.
Radcliffe; pray God preserve him. The Chancellor of the Exchequer(4)
showed me to-day a ballad(5) in manuscript against Lord Treasurer and
his South Sea project; it is very sharply written: if it be not
printed, I will send it you. If it be, it shall go in your packet of
pamphlets.--I found out your letter about directions for the apron, and
have ordered to be bought a cheap green silk work apron; I have it by
heart. I sat this evening with Mrs. Barton, who is my near neighbour. It
was a delicious day, and I got my walk, and was thinking whether MD was
walking too just at that time that Presto was. This paper does not
cost me a farthing, I have it from the Secretary's office. I long till
to-morrow to know how my Lord Treasurer sleeps this night, and to hear
he mends: we are all undone without him; so pray for him, sirrahs, and
don't stay too late at the Dean's.

26. I dined with Mrs. Van; for the weather is so bad, and I am so busy,
that I can't dine with great folks: and besides I dare eat but little,
to keep my head in order, which is better. Lord Treasurer is very ill,
but I hope in no danger. We have no quiet with the Whigs, they are so
violent against a peace; but I'll cool them, with a vengeance, very
soon. I have not heard from the Bishop of Clogher, whether he has got
his statues.(6) I writ to him six weeks ago; he's so busy with his
Parliament. I won't answer your letter yet, say what you will, saucy
girls.

27. I forgot to go about some business this morning, which cost me
double the time; and I was forced to be at the Secretary's office till
four, and lose my dinner; so I went to Mrs. Van's, and made them get me
three herrings, which I am very fond of, and they are a light victuals:
besides, I was to have supped at Lady Ashburnham's; but the drab did
not call for us in her coach, as she promised, but sent for us, and so I
sent my excuses. It has been a terrible rainy day, but so flattering in
the morning, that I would needs go out in my new hat. I met Leigh and
Sterne as I was going into the Park. Leigh says he will go to Ireland
in ten days, if he can get Sterne to go with him; so I will send him the
things for MD, and I have desired him to inquire about the box. I hate
that Sterne for his carelessness about it; but it was my fault.

29. I was all this terrible rainy day with my friend Lewis upon business
of importance; and I dined with him, and came home about 