, Lord Bolingbroke, and the Duke of Ormond,
for a bishopric, and I did it heartily. I know not what will come of
it; but I tell you as a great secret that I have made the Duke of Ormond
promise me to recommend nobody till he tells me, and this for some
reasons too long to mention. My head is still in no good order. I am
heartily sorry for poo Ppt, I'm sure. Her head is good for...(15) I'll
answer more to-mollow. Nite, dearest MD; nite dee sollahs, MD.(16)

5. I must go on with oo letter. I dined to-day with Sir Andrew Fountaine
and the Provost, and I played at ombre with him all the afternoon. I
won, yet Sir Andrew is an admirable player. Lord Pembroke(17) came in,
and I gave him three or four scurvy Dilly puns, that begin with an IF.
Well, but oor letter, well, ret me see.--No; I believe I shall write no
more this good while, nor publish what I have done. Nauty (?) Ppt, oo
are vely tempegant. I did not suspect oo would tell Filby.(18) Oo are
so... (19) Turns and visitations--what are these? I'll preach and visit
as much for Mr. Walls. Pray God mend poopt's(20) health; mine is but
very indifferent. I have left off Spa water; it makes my leg swell. Nite
deelest MD.

6. This is the Queen's Birthday, and I never saw it celebrated with so
much luxury and fine clothes. I went to Court to see them, and I dined
with Lord Keeper, where the ladies were fine to admiration. I passed the
evening at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and came home pretty early, to answer oo
rettle again. Pray God keep the Queen. She was very ill about ten days
ago, and had the gout in her stomach. When I came from Lord Keeper's, I
called at Lord Treasurer's, because I heard he was very fine, and
that was a new thing; and it was true, for his coat and waistcoat were
embroidered. I have seen the Provost often since, and never spoke to him
to speak to the Temples about Daniel Carr, nor will; I don't care to do
it. I have writ lately to Parvisol. Oo did well to let him make up his
accounts. All things grow dear in Ireland, but corn to the parsons; for
my livings are fallen much this year by Parvisol's account. Nite dee
logues, MD.

 7.(8)  I was at Court to-day, but saw no Birthday clothes; the great folks
never wear them above once or twice. I dined with Lord Orkney, and sat
the evening with Sir Andrew Fountaine, whose leg is in a very dubious
condition. Pray let me know when DD's money is near due: always let me
know it beforehand. This, I believe, will hardly go till Saturday; for
I tell you what, being not very well, I dare not study much: so I let
company come in a morning, and the afternoon pass in dining and sitting
somewhere. Lord Treasurer is angry if I don't dine with him every second
day, and I cannot part with him till late: he kept me last night till
near twelve. Our weather is constant rain above these two months, which
hinders walking, so that our spring is not like yours. I have not seen
Fanny Manley(21) yet; I cannot find time. I am in rebellion with all my
acquaintance, but I will mend with my health and the weather. Clogher
make a figure! Clogher make a ----. Colds! why, we have been all dying
with colds; but now they are a little over, and my second is almost
off. I can do nothing for Swanton indeed. It is a thing impossible, and
wholly out of my way. If he buys, he must buy. So now I have answered oo
rettle; and there's an end of that now; and I'll say no more, but bid oo
nite, dee MD.

8.(9) It was terrible rainy to-day from morning till night. I intended
to have dined with Lord Treasurer, but went to see Sir Andrew Fountaine,
and he kept me to dinner, which saved coach-hire; and I stayed with him
all the afternoon, and lost thirteen shillings and sixpence at ombre.
There was management! and Lord Treasurer will chide; but I'll dine
with him to-morrow. The Bishop of Clogher's daughter has been ill some
days,(22) and it proves the smallpox. She is very full; but it comes
out well, and they apprehend no danger. Lady Orkney has given me her
picture; a very fine original of Sir Godfrey Kneller's; it is now a
mending. He has favoured her squint admirably; and you know I love a
cast in the eye. I was to see Lady Worsley(23) to-day, who is just come
to town; she is full of rheumatic pains. All my acquaintance grow old
and sickly. She lodges in the very house in King Street, between St.
James's Street and St. James's Square, where DD's brother bought the
sweetbread, when I lodged there, and MD came to see me. Short sighs.(24)
Nite MD.

9.(10) I thought to have dined with Lord Treasurer to-day, but he dined
abroad at Tom Harley's; so I dined at Lord Masham's, and was winning all
I had lost playing with Lady Masham at crown picquet, when we went to
pools, and I lost it again. Lord Treasurer came in to us, and chid me
for not following him to Tom Harley's. Miss Ashe is still the same, and
they think her not in danger; my man calls there daily after I am gone
out, and tells me at night. I was this morning to see Lady Jersey, and
we have made twenty parties about dining together, and I shall hardly
keep one of them. She is reduced after all her greatness to seven
se