nine, and then went to Lord Masham's, where Lord
Treasurer followed me, and we sat till twelve; and I came home in a
chair for fear of the Mohocks, and I have given him warning of it
too. Little Harrison,(10) whom I sent to Holland, is now actually made
Queen's Secretary at The Hague. It will be in the Gazette to-morrow.
'Tis worth twelve hundred pounds a year. Here is a young fellow has writ
some Sea Eclogues, poems of Mermen, resembling pastorals of shepherds,
and they are very pretty, and the thought is new. Mermen are
he-mermaids; Tritons, natives of the sea. Do you understand me? I think
to recommend him to our Society to-morrow. His name is Diaper.(11) P--
on him, I must do something for him, and get him out of the way. I hate
to have any new wits rise, but when they do rise I would encourage them;
but they tread on our heels and thrust us off the stage. Nite deelest
MD.

13. You would laugh to see our printer constantly attending our Society
after dinner, and bringing us whatever new thing he has printed, which
he seldom fails to do. Yet he had nothing to-day. Lord Lansdowne, one of
our Society, was offended at a passage in this day's Examiner, which he
thinks reflects on him, as I believe it does, though in a mighty civil
way. 'Tis only that his underlings cheat; but that he is a very fine
gentleman every way, etc.(12) Lord Orrery was President to-day; but
both our dukes were absent. Brother Wyndham recommended Diaper to the
Society. I believe we shall make a contribution among ourselves, which I
don't like. Lord Treasurer has yet done nothing for us, but we shall try
him soon. The company parted early, but Freind, and Prior, and I, sat a
while longer and reformed the State, and found fault with the Ministry.
Prior hates his Commission of the Customs, because it spoils his wit. He
says he dreams of nothing but cockets,(13) and dockets, and drawbacks,
and other jargon words of the custom-house. Our good weather went away
yesterday, and the nights are now dark, and I came home before ten.
Night nown... deelest sollahs.

14. I have been plagued this morning with solicitors, and with nobody
more than my brother, Dr. Freind, who must needs have to get old Dr.
Lawrence,(14) the Physician-General, turned out and himself in. He has
argued with me so long upon the reasonableness of it, that I am fully
convinced it is very unreasonable; and so I would tell the Secretary, if
I had not already made him speak to the Queen. Besides, I know not but
my friend Dr. Arbuthnot would be content to have it himself, and I love
him ten times better than Freind. What's all this to you? but I must
talk of things as they happen in the day, whether you know anything
of them or no. I dined in the City, and, coming back, one Parson
Richardson(15) of Ireland overtook me. He was here last summer upon
a project of converting the Irish and printing Bibles, etc., in
that language, and is now returned to pursue it on. He tells me Dr.
Coghill(16) came last night (to) town. I will send to see how he does
to-morrow. He gave me a letter from Walls about his old business. Nite,
deelest MD.

15. I had intended to be early with the Secretary this morning, when my
man admitted upstairs one Mr. Newcomb,(17) an officer, who brought me a
letter from the Bishop of Clogher, with four lines added by Mrs. Ashe,
all about that Newcomb. I think, indeed, his case is hard, but God
knows whether I shall be able to do him any service. People will
not understand: I am a very good second, but I care not to begin a
recommendation, unless it be for an intimate friend. However, I will do
what I can. I missed the Secretary, and then walked to Chelsea to dine
with the Dean of Christ Church,(18) who was engaged to Lord Orrery with
some other Christ Church men. He made me go with him whether I would or
not, for they have this long time admitted me a Christ Church man.
Lord Orrery, generally every winter, gives his old acquaintance of that
college a dinner. There were nine clergymen at table, and four laymen.
The Dean and I soon left them, and after a visit or two, I went to Lord
Masham's, and Lord Treasurer, Arbuthnot and I sat till twelve. And now I
am come home and got to bed. I came afoot, but had my man with me. Lord
Treasurer advised me not to go in a chair, because the Mohocks insult
chairs more than they do those on foot. They think there is some
mischievous design in those villains. Several of them, Lord Treasurer
told me, are actually taken up. I heard at dinner that one of them was
killed last night. We shall know more in a little time. I don't like
them, as the men said.(19) Nite MD.

16. This morning, at the Secretary's, I met General Ross,(20) and
recommended Newcomb's case to him, who promises to join with me
in working up the Duke of Ormond to do something for him. Lord
Winchelsea(21) told me to-day at Court that two of the Mohocks caught
a maid of old Lady Winchelsea's,(22) at the door of their house in the
Park, where she was with a candle, and had just lighted out somebody.
They cut all her face, and beat her without any provocation. I hear my
friend Lewis has got