e; just half a dozen; only I'll
make Lord Keeper give me his print in a frame. This letter must go
to-morrow, because of sending ME a bill; else it should not till next
week, I assure oo. I have little to do now with my pen; for my grand
business stops till they are more pressing, and till something or other
happens; and I believe I shall return with disgust to finish it, it is
so very laborious. Sir Thomas Hanmer has my papers now. And hat is MD
doing now? Oh, at ombre with the Dean always on Friday night, with Mrs.
Walls. Pray don't play at small games. I stood by, t'other night, while
the Duke d'Atree(29) lost six times with manilio, basto, and three small
trumps; and Lady Jersey won above twenty pounds. Nite dee richar(30) MD.

28. I was at Court to-day, when the Abbe Gaultier whispered me that a
courier was just come with an account that the French King had consented
to all the Queen's demands, and his consent was carried to Utrecht,
and the peace will be signed in a few days. I suppose the general peace
cannot be so soon ready; but that is no matter. The news presently ran
about the Court. I saw the Queen carried out in her chair, to take the
air in the garden. I met Griffin at Court, and he told me that orders
were sent to examine Filby; and, if he be fit, to make him (I think he
called it) an assistant; I don't know what, Supervisor, I think; but it
is some employment a good deal better than his own. The Parliament will
have another short prorogation, though it is not known yet. I dined with
Lord Treasurer and his Saturday company, and left him at eight to put
this in the post-office time enough. And now I must bid oo farewell,
deelest richar Ppt. God bless oo ever, and rove Pdfr. Farewell MD MD MD
FW FW FW FW ME ME ME Lele Lele.




LETTER 61.(1)

LONDON, March 1, 1712-13.

'Tis out of my head whether I answered all your letter in my last
yesterday or no. I think I was in haste, and could not: but now I see I
answered a good deal of it; no, only about your brother, and ME's bill.
I dined with Lady Orkney, and we talked politics till eleven at night;
and, as usual, found everything wrong, and put ourselves out of humour.
Yes, I have Lady Giffard's picture sent me by your mother. It is boxed
up at a place where my other things are. I have goods in two or three
places; and when I leave a lodging, I box up the books I get (for I
always get some), and come naked into a new lodging; and so on. Talk not
to me of deaneries; I know less of that than ever by much. Nite MD.

2. I went to-day into the City to see Pat Rolt,(2) who lodges with a
City cousin, a daughter of coz Cleve; (you are much the wiser). I had
never been at her house before. My he-coz Thompson the butcher is dead,
or dying. I dined with my printer, and walked home, and went to sit with
Lady Clarges. I found four of them at whist; Lady Godolphin(3) was one.
I sat by her, and talked of her cards, etc., but she would not give
me one look, nor say a word to me. She refused some time ago to be
acquainted with me. You know she is Lord Marlborough's eldest daughter.
She is a fool for her pains, and I'll pull her down. What can I do for
Dr. Smith's daughter's husband? I have no personal credit with any
of the Commissioners. I'll speak to Keatley;(4) but I believe it will
signify nothing. In the Customs people must rise by degrees, and he
must at first take what is very low, if he be qualified for that. Ppt
mistakes me; I am not angry at your recommending anyone to me, provided
you will take my answer. Some things are in my way, and then I serve
those I can. But people will not distinguish, but take things ill, when
I have no power; but Ppt is wiser. And employments in general are very
hard to be got. Nite MD.

3. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for my absence, which
was only from Saturday last. The Parliament was again prorogued for a
week, and I suppose the peace will be ready by then, and the Queen
will be able to be brought to the House, and make her speech. I saw Dr.
Griffith(5) two or three months ago, at a Latin play at Westminster;
but did not speak to him. I hope he will not die; I should be sorry for
Ppt's sake; he is very tender of her. I have long lost all my colds,
and the weather mends a little. I take some steel drops, and my head
is pretty well. I walk when I can, but am grown very idle; and, not
finishing my thing, I gamble(6) abroad and play at ombre. I shall be
more careful in my physic than Mrs. Price: 'tis not a farthing matter
her death, I think; and so I say no more to-night, but will read a dull
book, and go sleep. Nite dee MD.

4. Mr. Ford has been this half-year inviting me to dine at his lodgings:
so I did to-day, and brought the Provost and Dr. Parnell with me, and my
friend Lewis was there. Parnell went away, and the other three played at
ombre, and I looked on; which I love, and would not play. Tisdall is a
pretty fellow, as you say; and when I come back to Ireland with nothing,
he will condole with me with abundance of secret pleasure. I believe
I told you what he wrote to me, that I have saved England, and he
Ireland;(7)