am more sorry for than you think:
and I have spent fourteen years in improving you to little purpose.
(Mr. Tooke is come here, and I must stop.)--At night. I dined with
Lord Treasurer to-day, and he kept me till nine; so I cannot send this
to-night, as I intended, nor write some other letters. Green,(20) his
surgeon, was there, and dressed his breast; that is, put on a plaster,
which is still requisite: and I took an opportunity to speak to him of
the Queen; but he cut me short with this saying, "Laissez faire a Don
Antoine," which is a French proverb, expressing, "Leave that to me."
I find he is against her taking much physic; and I doubt he cannot
persuade her to take Dr. Radcliffe. However, she is very well now, and
all the story of her illness, except the first day or two, was a lie.
We had some business, that company hindered us from doing, though he is
earnest for it, yet would not appoint me a certain day, but bids me come
at all times till we can have leisure. This takes up a great deal of my
time, and I can do nothing I would do for them. I was with the Secretary
this morning, and we both think to go to Windsor for some days, to
despatch an affair, if we can have leisure. Sterne met me just now in
the street by his lodgings, and I went in for an hour to Jemmy Leigh,
who loves London dearly: he asked after you with great respect and
friendship.--To return to your letter. Your Bishop Mills(21) hates me
mortally: I wonder he should speak well of me, having abused me in
all places where he went. So you pay your way. Cudsho: you had a
fine supper, I warrant; two pullets, and a bottle of wine, and some
currants.--It is just three weeks to-day since you set out to Wexford;
you were three days going, and I do not expect a letter these ten days
yet, or rather this fortnight. I got a grant of the Gazette(22) for Ben
Tooke this morning from Mr. Secretary: it will be worth to him a hundred
pounds a year.

18. To-day I took leave of Mrs. Barton, who is going into the country;
and I dined with Sir John Stanley,(23) where I have not been this great
while. There dined with us Lord Rochester, and his fine daughter, Lady
Jane,(24) just growing a top-toast. I have been endeavouring to save
Sir Matthew Dudley,(25) but fear I cannot. I walked the Mall six times
to-night for exercise, and would have done more; but, as empty as the
town is, a fool got hold of me, and so I came home, to tell you this
shall go to-morrow, without fail, and follow you to Wexford, like a dog.

19. Dean Atterbury sent to me to dine with him at Chelsea. I refused
his coach, and walked, and am come back by seven, because I would finish
this letter, and some others I am writing. Patrick tells me the maid
says one Mr. Walls, a clergyman, a tall man, was here to visit me. Is it
your Irish Archdeacon? I shall be sorry for it; but I shall make shift
to see him seldom enough, as I do Dilly. What can he do here? or is it
somebody else? The Duke of Newcastle(26) is dead by the fall he had from
his horse. God send poor Stella her health, and keep MD happy! Farewell,
and love Presto, who loves MD above all things ten million of times. God
bless the dear Wexford girls. Farewell again, etc. etc.




LETTER 27.

LONDON, July 19, 1711.

I have just sent my 26th, and have nothing to say, because I have other
letters to write (pshaw, I began too high); but I must lay the beginning
like a nest-egg: to-morrow I will say more, and fetch up this line to be
straight. This is enough at present for two dear saucy naughty girls.

20. Have I told you that Walls has been with me, and leaves the town
in three days? He has brought no gown with him. Dilly carried him to a
play. He has come upon a foolish errand, and goes back as he comes.
I was this day with Lord Peterborow, who is going another ramble: I
believe I told you so. I dined with Lord Treasurer, but cannot get him
to do his own business with me; he has put me off till to-morrow.

21, 22. I dined yesterday with Lord Treasurer, who would needs take me
along with him to Windsor, although I refused him several times, having
no linen, etc. I had just time to desire Lord Forbes(1) to call at my
lodging and order my man to send my things to-day to Windsor by his
servant. I lay last night at the Secretary's lodgings at Windsor, and
borrowed one of his shirts to go to Court in. The Queen is very well. I
dined with Mr. Masham; and not hearing anything of my things, I got Lord
Winchelsea to bring me to town. Here I found that Patrick had broke open
the closet to get my linen and nightgown, and sent them to Windsor, and
there they are; and he, not thinking I would return so soon, is gone
upon his rambles: so here I am left destitute, and forced to borrow a
nightgown of my landlady, and have not a rag to put on to-morrow: faith,
it gives me the spleen.

23. Morning. It is a terrible rainy day, and rained prodigiously on
Saturday night. Patrick lay out last night, and is not yet returned:
faith, poor Presto is a desolate creature; neither servant, nor linen,
nor anything.--Night. Lord Forbes's man has brought back my portmantua,
and Patrick is 