stand them." He realised that the
Tories might not be more grateful than others, but he thought they were
pursuing the true interests of the public, and was glad to contribute
what was in his power. His vanity was gratified by Harley inviting him
to the private dinners with St. John and Harcourt which were given on
Saturdays, and by their calling him Jonathan; but he did not hope too
much from their friendship: "I said I believed they would leave me
Jonathan, as they found me... but I care not."

Of Swift's frugal habits there is abundant evidence in the Journal.
When he came to town he took rooms on a first floor, "a dining-room and
bed-chamber, at eight shillings a week; plaguy dear, but I spend nothing
for eating, never go to a tavern, and very seldom in a coach; yet after
all it will be expensive." In November he mentions that he had a fire:
"I am spending my second half-bushel of coals." In another place
he says, "People have so left the town, that I am at a loss for a
dinner.... It cost me eighteenpence in coach-hire before I could find
a place to dine in." Elsewhere we find: "This paper does not cost me a
farthing: I have it from the Secretary's office." He often complains
of having to take a coach owing to the dirty condition of the streets:
"This rain ruins me in coach-hire; I walked away sixpennyworth, and came
within a shilling length, and then took a coach, and got a lift back for
nothing."(13)

Swift's arrogance--the arrogance, sometimes, of a man who is morbidly
suspicious that he may be patronised--is shown in the manner in which
he speaks of the grand ladies with whom he came in contact. He calls the
Duke of Ormond's daughters "insolent drabs," and talks of his "mistress,
Ophy Butler's wife, who is grown a little charmless." When the Duchess
of Shrewsbury reproached him for not dining with her, Swift said that
was not so soon done; he expected more advances from ladies,
especially duchesses. On another occasion he was to have supped at Lady
Ashburnham's, "but the drab did not call for us in her coach, as she
promised, but sent for us, and so I sent my excuses." The arrogance was,
however, often only on the surface. It is evident that Swift was very
kind in many cases. He felt deeply for Mrs. Long in her misfortunes,
living and dying in an obscure country town. On the last illness of the
poet Harrison he says, "I am very much afflicted for him, as he is my
own creature.... I was afraid to knock at the door; my mind misgave me."
He was "heartily sorry for poor Mrs. Parnell's death; she seemed to be
an excellent good-natured young woman, and I believe the poor lad
is much afflicted; they appeared to live perfectly well together."
Afterwards he helped Parnell by introducing him to Bolingbroke and
Oxford. He found kind words for Mrs. Manley in her illness, and Lady
Ashburnham's death was "extremely moving.... She was my greatest
favourite, and I am in excessive concern for her loss." Lastly, he was
extraordinarily patient towards his servant Patrick, who drank, stopped
out at night, and in many ways tried Swift's temper. There were good
points about Patrick, but no doubt the great consideration which Swift
showed him was due in part to the fact that he was a favourite of the
ladies in Dublin, and had Mrs. Vanhomrigh to intercede for him.

But for the best example of the kindly side of Swift's nature, we
must turn to what he tells us in the Journal about Stella herself. The
"little language" which Swift used when writing to her was the language
he employed when playing with Stella as a little child at Moor Park.
Thackeray, who was not much in sympathy with Swift, said that he knew of
"nothing more manly, more tender, more exquisitely touching, than some
of these notes." Swift says that when he wrote plainly, he felt as if
they were no longer alone, but "a bad scrawl is so snug it looks like
a PMD." In writing his fond and playful prattle, he made up his mouth
"just as if he were speaking it."(14)

Though Mrs. Dingley is constantly associated with Stella in the
affectionate greetings in the Journal, she seems to have been included
merely as a cloak to enable him to express the more freely his
affection for her companion. Such phrases as "saucy girls," "sirrahs,"
"sauceboxes," and the like, are often applied to both; and sometimes
Swift certainly writes as if the one were as dear to him as the other;
thus we find, "Farewell, my dearest lives and delights, I love you
better than ever, if possible, as hope saved, I do, and ever will....
I can count upon nothing, nor will, but upon MD's love and kindness....
And so farewell, dearest MD, Stella, Dingley, Presto, all together,
now and for ever, all together." But as a rule, notwithstanding
Swift's caution, the greetings intended for Stella alone are easily
distinguishable in tone. He often refers to her weak eyes and delicate
health. Thus he writes, "The chocolate is a present, madam, for Stella.
Don't read this, you little rogue, with your little eyes; but give it to
Dingley, pray now; and I will write as plain as the skies." And again,
"God Almighty bless poor Stella, a