ee Lord Harley, and thought to have
sat with Lord Treasurer, but he was taken up with the Dutch Envoy and
such folks; and I would not stay. One particular in life here, different
from what I have in Dublin, is, that whenever I come home I expect
to find some letter for me, and seldom miss; and never any worth a
farthing, but often to vex me. The Queen does not come to town till
Saturday. Prior is not yet declared; but these Ministers being at
Hampton Court, I know nothing; and if I write news from common hands, it
is always lies. You will think it affectation; but nothing has vexed
me more for some months past, than people I never saw pretending to be
acquainted with me, and yet speak ill of me too; at least some of them.
An old crooked Scotch countess, whom I never heard of in my life, told
the Duchess of Hamilton(7) t'other day that I often visited her. People
of worth never do that; so that a man only gets the scandal of having
scurvy acquaintance. Three ladies were railing against me some time
ago, and said they were very well acquainted with me; two of which I had
never heard of, and the third I had only seen twice where I happened to
visit. A man who has once seen me in a coffee-house will ask me how I
do, when he sees me talking at Court with a Minister of State; who is
sure to ask me how I came acquainted with that scoundrel. But come,
sirrahs, this is all stuff to you, so I'll say no more on this side the
paper, but turn over.

23. My printer invited Mr. Lewis and me to dine at a tavern to-day,
which I have not done five times since I came to England; I never will
call it Britain, pray don't call it Britain. My week is not out, and one
side of this paper is out, and I have a letter to answer of MD's into
the bargain: must I write on the third side? faith, that will give you
an ill habit. I saw Leigh last night: he gives a terrible account of
Sterne; he reckons he is seduced by some wench; he is over head and ears
in debt, and has pawned several things. Leigh says he goes on Monday
next for Ireland, but believes Sterne will not go with him; Sterne has
kept him these three months. Leigh has got the apron and things,
and promises to call for the box at Chester; but I despair of it.
Good-night, sirrahs; I have been late abroad.

24. I have finished my pamphlet(8) to-day, which has cost me so much
time and trouble: it will be published in three or four days, when the
Parliament begins sitting. I suppose the Queen is come to town, but
know nothing, having been in the City finishing and correcting with the
printer. When I came home, I found letters on my table as usual, and one
from your mother, to tell me that you desire your writings and a picture
should be sent to me, to be sent over to you. I have just answered her
letter, and promised to take care of them if they be sent to me. She is
at Farnham: it is too late to send them by Leigh; besides, I will
wait your orders, Madam Stella. I am going to finish a letter to Lord
Treasurer about reforming our language;(9) but first I must put an end
to a ballad; and go you to your cards, sirrahs, this is card season.

25. I was early with the Secretary to-day, but he was gone to his
devotions, and to receive the sacrament: several rakes did the same; it
was not for piety, but employments; according to Act of Parliament. I
dined with Lady Mary Dudley;(10) and passed my time since insipidly,
only I was at Court at noon, and saw fifty acquaintance I had not met
this long time: that is the advantage of a Court, and I fancy I am
better known than any man that goes there. Sir John Walter's(11) quarrel
with me has entertained the town ever since; and yet we never had a
word, only he railed at me behind my back. The Parliament is again to
be prorogued for eight or nine days, for the Whigs are too strong in the
House of Lords: other reasons are pretended, but that is the truth. The
prorogation is not yet known, but will be to-morrow.

26. Mr. Lewis and I dined with a friend of his, and unexpectedly there
dined with us an Irish knight, one Sir John St. Leger,(12) who follows
the law here, but at a great distance: he was so pert, I was forced to
take him down more than once. I saw to-day the Pope, and Devil, and the
other figures of cardinals, etc., fifteen in all, which have made such a
noise. I have put an under-strapper upon writing a twopenny pamphlet(13)
to give an account of the whole design. My large pamphlet(14) will
be published to-morrow; copies are sent to the great men this night.
Domville(15) is come home from his travels; I am vexed at it: I have not
seen him yet; I design to present him to all the great men.

27. Domville came to me this morning, and we dined at Pontack's, and
were all day together, till six this evening: he is perfectly as fine
a gentleman as I know; he set me down at Lord Treasurer's, with whom I
stayed about an hour, till Monsieur Buys, the Dutch Envoy, came to him
about business. My Lord Treasurer is pretty well, but stiff in the hips
with the remains of the rheumatism. I am to bring Domville to my Lord
Harley in a day or two. It was the dirtiest rainy da