not be quieted in some months.

On the 15th will be a violent storm on the south-east coast of France,
which will destroy many of their ships, and some in the very harbour.

The 19th will be famous for the revolt of a whole province or kingdom,
excepting one city, by which the affairs of a certain prince in the
alliance will take a better face.

May, against common conjectures, will be no very busy month in Europe,
but very signal for the death of the Dauphin, which will happen on
the 7th, after a short fit of sickness, and grievous torments with the
strangury. He dies less lamented by the court than the kingdom.

On the 9th a Mareschal of France will break his leg by a fall from his
horse. I have not been able to discover whether he will then die or not.

On the 11th will begin a most important siege, which the eyes of all
Europe will be upon: I cannot be more particular: for in relating
affairs that so nearly concern the Confederates, and consequently this
Kingdom, I am forced to confine myself, for several reasons very obvious
to the reader.

On the 15th news will arrive of a very surprizing event, than which
nothing could be more unexpected.

On the 19th three noble ladies of this Kingdom will, against all
expectation, prove with child, to the great joy of their husbands.

On the 23rd a famous buffoon of the play-house will die a ridiculous
death, suitable to his vocation.

June. This month will be distinguish'd at home, by the utter dispersing
of those ridiculous deluded enthusiasts, commonly call'd the Prophets;
occasion'd chiefly by seeing the time come that many of their prophecies
should be fulfill'd, and then finding themselves deceiv'd by contrary
events. It is indeed to be admir'd how any deceiver can be so weak, to
foretel things near at hand, when a very few months must of necessity
discover the impostor to all the world; in this point less prudent than
common almanack-makers, who are so wise to wonder in generals, and talk
dubiously, and leave to the reader the business of interpreting.

On the 1st of this month a French general will be killed by a random
shot of a cannon-ball.

On the 6th a fire will break out in the suburbs of Paris, which will
destroy above a thousand houses; and seems to be the foreboding of
what will happen, to the surprize of all Europe, about the end of the
following month.

On the 10th a great battle will be fought, which will begin at four
of the clock in the afternoon; and last till nine at night with great
obstinacy, but no very decisive event. I shall not name the place, for
the reasons aforesaid; but the commanders on each left wing will be
killed.--I see bonfires, and hear the noise of guns for a victory.

On the 14th there will be a false report of the French king's death.

On the 20th Cardinal Portocarero will die of a dysentery, with great
suspicion of poison; but the report of his intention to revolt to King
Charles, will prove false.

July. The 6th of this month a certain general will, by a glorious
action, recover the reputation he lost by former misfortunes.

On the 12th a great commander will die a prisoner in the hands of his
enemies.

On the 14th a shameful discovery will be made of a French Jesuit, giving
poison to a great foreign general; and when he is put to the torture,
will make wonderful discoveries.

In short this will prove a month of great action, if I might have
liberty to relate the particulars.

At home, the death of an old famous senator will happen on the 15th at
his country-house, worn with age and diseases.

But that which will make this month memorable to all posterity, is the
death of the French King, Lewis the fourteenth, after a week's sickness
at Marli, which will happen on the 29th, about six o'clock in the
evening. It seems to be an effect of the gout in his stomach, followed
by a flux. And in three days after Monsieur Chamillard will follow his
master, dying suddenly of an appoplexy.

In this month likewise an ambassador will die in London; but I cannot
assign the day.

August. The affairs of France will seem to suffer no change for a
while under the Duke of Burgundy's administration; but the genius that
animated the whole machine being gone, will be the cause of mighty turns
and revolutions in the following year. The new King makes yet little
change either in the army or the ministry; but the libels against his
grandfather, that fly about his very court, give him uneasiness.

I see an express in mighty haste, with joy and wonder in his looks,
arriving by break of day on the 26th of this month, having travell'd in
three days a prodigious journey by land and sea. In the evening I hear
bells and guns, and see the blazing of a thousand bonfires.

A young admiral of noble birth, does likewise this month gain immortal
honour by a great achievement.

The affairs of Poland are this month entirely settled: Augustus resigns
his pretensions which he had again taken up for some time: Stanislaus is
peaceably possess'd of the throne; and the King of Sweden declares for
the Emperor.

I cannot omit one particular accident here at home; that near the end of
thi