ave no gilt paper left of this size, so you must be content with
plain. Our Society dined together today, for it was put off, as I told
you, upon Lord Marlborough's business on Thursday. The Duke of Ormond
dined with us to-day, the first time: we were thirteen at table; and
Lord Lansdowne came in after dinner, so that we wanted but three. The
Secretary proposed the Duke of Beaufort, who desires to be one of our
Society; but I stopped it, because the Duke of Ormond doubts a little
about it; and he was gone before it was proposed. I left them at seven,
and sat this evening with poor Mrs. Wesley, who has been mightily ill
to-day with a fainting fit; she has often convulsions, too: she takes
a mixture with asafoetida, which I have now in my nose, and everything
smells of it. I never smelt it before; 'tis abominable. We have eight
packets, they say, due from Ireland.

27. I could not see Prince Eugene at Court to-day, the crowd was so
great. The Whigs contrive to have a crowd always about him, and employ
the rabble to give the word, when he sets out from any place. When the
Duchess of Hamilton came from the Queen after church, she whispered me
that she was going to pay me a visit. I went to Lady Oglethorpe's, the
place appointed; for ladies always visit me in third places; and she
kept me till near four: she talks too much, is a plaguy detractor, and
I believe I shall not much like her. I was engaged to dine with Lord
Masham: they stayed as long as they could, yet had almost dined, and
were going in anger to pull down the brass peg for my hat, but Lady
Masham saved it. At eight I went again to Lord Masham's; Lord Treasurer
is generally there at night: we sat up till almost two. Lord Treasurer
has engaged me to contrive some way to keep the Archbishop of York(1)
from being seduced by Lord Nottingham. I will do what I can in it
to-morrow. 'Tis very late, so I must go sleep.

28. Poor Mrs. Manley, the author, is very ill of a dropsy and sore leg:
the printer tells me he is afraid she cannot live long. I am heartily
sorry for her: she has very generous principles for one of her sort,
and a great deal of good sense and invention: she is about forty, very
homely, and very fat. Mrs. Van made me dine with her to-day. I was
this morning with the Duke of Ormond and the Prolocutor about what Lord
Treasurer spoke to me yesterday; I know not what will be the issue.
There is but a slender majority in the House of Lords, and we want more.
We are sadly mortified at the news of the French taking the town in
Brazil from the Portuguese. The sixth edition of three thousand of
the Conduct of the Allies is sold, and the printer talks of a seventh:
eleven thousand of them have been sold, which is a most prodigious run.
The little twopenny Letter of Advice to the October Club does not sell:
I know not the reason, for it is finely written, I assure you; and, like
a true author, I grow fond of it, because it does not sell: you know
that it is usual to writers to condemn the judgment of the world: if I
had hinted it to be mine, everybody would have bought it, but it is a
great secret.

29. I borrowed one or two idle books of Contes des Fees,(2) and have
been reading them these two days, although I have much business upon
my hands. I loitered till one at home; then went to Mr. Lewis at his
office; and the Vice-Chamberlain told me that Lady Rialton(3) had
yesterday resigned her employment of lady of the bed-chamber, and that
Lady Jane Hyde,(4) Lord Rochester's daughter, a mighty pretty girl, is
to succeed. He said, too, that Lady Sunderland would resign in a day or
two. I dined with Lewis, and then went to see Mrs. Wesley, who is better
to-day. But you must know that Mr. Lewis gave me two letters, one from
the Bishop of Cloyne, with an enclosed from Lord Inchiquin(5) to Lord
Treasurer, which he desires I would deliver and recommend. I am told
that lord was much in with Lord Wharton, and I remember he was to have
been one of the Lords Justices by his recommendation; yet the Bishop
recommends him as a great friend to the Church, etc. I'll do what I
think proper. T'other letter was from little saucy MD, N.26. O Lord,
never saw the like, under a cover, too, and by way of journal; we shall
never have done. Sirrahs, how durst you write so soon, sirrahs? I won't
answer it yet.

30. I was this morning with the Secretary, who was sick, and out of
humour: he would needs drink champagne some days ago, on purpose to
spite me, because I advised him against it, and now he pays for it.
Stella used to do such tricks formerly; he put me in mind of her. Lady
Sunderland has resigned her place too. It is Lady Catherine Hyde(6) that
succeeds Lady Rialton, and not Lady Jane. Lady Catherine is the late
Earl of Rochester's daughter. I dined with the Secretary, then visited
his lady; and sat this evening with Lady Masham: the Secretary came
to us; but Lord Treasurer did not; he dined with the Master of the
Rolls,(7) and stayed late with him. Our Society does not meet till
to-morrow se'nnight, because we think the Parliament will be very busy
to-morrow upon the state of the war, and 