ould determine at noon. At three Lord Treasurer sent to me to
come to his lodgings at St. James's, and told me the Queen was at last
resolved that Dr. Sterne should be Bishop of Dromore, and I Dean of St.
Patrick's; and that Sterne's warrant should be drawn immediately. You
know the deanery is in the Duke of Ormond's gift; but this is concerted
between the Queen, Lord Treasurer, and the Duke of Ormond, to make room
for me. I do not know whether it will yet be done; some unlucky accident
may yet come. Neither can I feel joy at passing my days in Ireland; and
I confess I thought the Ministry would not let me go; but perhaps they
can't help it. Nite MD.

19. I forgot to tell you that Lord Treasurer forced me to dine with
him yesterday as usual, with his Saturday company; which I did after
frequent refusals. To-day I dined with a private friend, and was not at
Court. After dinner Mr. Lewis sent me a note, that the Queen stayed till
she knew whether the Duke of Ormond approved of Sterne for Bishop. I
went this evening, and found the Duke of Ormond at the Cock-pit, and
told him, and desired he would go to the Queen, and approve of Sterne.
He made objections, desired I would name any other deanery, for he
did not like Sterne; that Sterne never went to see him; that he was
influenced by the Archbishop of Dublin, etc.; so all now is broken
again. I sent out for Lord Treasurer, and told him this. He says all
will do well; but I value not what he says. This suspense vexes me worse
than anything else. Nite MD.

20. I went to-day, by appointment, to the Cock-pit, to talk with the
Duke of Ormond. He repeated the same proposals of any other deanery,
etc. I desired he would put me out of the case, and do as he pleased.
Then, with great kindness, he said he would consent; but would do it
for no man alive but me, etc. And he will speak to the Queen today or
to-morrow; so, perhaps, something will come of it. I can't tell. Nite
dee dee logues, MD.

21. The Duke of Ormond has told the Queen he is satisfied that Sterne
should be Bishop, and she consents I shall be Dean; and I suppose the
warrants will be drawn in a day or two. I dined at an ale-house with
Parnell and Berkeley; for I am not in humour to go among the Ministers,
though Lord Dartmouth invited me to dine with him to-day, and Lord
Treasurer was to be there. I said I would, if I were out of suspense.
Nite deelest MD.

22. The Queen says warrants shall be drawn, but she will dispose of all
in England and Ireland at once, to be teased no more. This will delay
it some time; and, while it is delayed, I am not sure of the Queen, my
enemies being busy. I hate this suspense. Nite deelest MD.(16)

23. I dined yesterday with General Hamilton.(17) I forgot to tell oo. I
write short journals now. I have eggs on the spit. This night the Queen
has signed all the warrants, among which Sterne is Bishop of Dromore,
and the Duke of Ormond is to send over an order for making me Dean of
St. Patrick's. I have no doubt of him at all. I think 'tis now passed.
And I suppose MD is malicious enough to be glad, and rather have it than
Wells.(18) But you see what a condition I am in. I thought I was to pay
but six hundred pounds for the house; but the Bishop of Clogher says
eight hundred pounds; first-fruits one hundred and fifty pounds, and so,
with patent, a thousand pounds in all; so that I shall not be the better
for the deanery these three years. I hope in some time they will be
persuaded here to give me some money to pay off these debts. I must
finish the book I am writing,(19) before I can go over; and they expect
I shall pass next winter here, and then I will dun them to give me a
sum of money. However, I hope to pass four or five months with MD, and
whatever comes on it. MD's allowance must be increased, and shall be
too, fais... (20) I received oor rettle No. 39 to-night; just ten weeks
since I had your last. I shall write next post to Bishop Sterne. Never
man had so many enemies of Ireland(21) as he. I carried it with the
strongest hand possible. If he does not use me well and gently in
what dealings I shall have with him, he will be the most ungrateful of
mankind. The Archbishop of York,(22) my mortal enemy, has sent, by a
third hand, that he would be glad to see me. Shall I see him, or not?
I hope to be over in a month, and that MD, with their raillery, will
be mistaken, that I shall make it three years. I will answer oo rettle
soon; but no more journals. I shall be very busy. Short letters from
hence forward. I shall not part with Laracor. That is all I have to live
on, except the deanery be worth more than four hundred pounds a year.
Is it? If it be, the overplus shall be divided between MD and FW beside
usual allowance of MD.... (23) Pray write to me a good-humoured letter
immediately, let it be ever so short. This affair was carried with great
difficulty, which vexes me. But they say here 'tis much to my reputation
that I have made a bishop, in spite of all the world, to get the best
deanery in Ireland. Nite dee sollahs.

24. I forgot to tell you I had Sterne's letter yesterday, in answer to
mine