straw.  I now began to be a little comforted; and took
out some toys, which travellers usually carry for presents to the savage
Indians of America, and other parts, in hopes the people of the house
would be thereby encouraged to receive me kindly.  The horse made me a
sign to go in first; it was a large room with a smooth clay floor, and a
rack and manger, extending the whole length on one side.  There were
three nags and two mares, not eating, but some of them sitting down upon
their hams, which I very much wondered at; but wondered more to see the
rest employed in domestic business; these seemed but ordinary cattle.
However, this confirmed my first opinion, that a people who could so far
civilise brute animals, must needs excel in wisdom all the nations of the
world.  The gray came in just after, and thereby prevented any ill
treatment which the others might have given me.  He neighed to them
several times in a style of authority, and received answers.

Beyond this room there were three others, reaching the length of the
house, to which you passed through three doors, opposite to each other,
in the manner of a vista.  We went through the second room towards the
third.  Here the gray walked in first, beckoning me to attend: I waited
in the second room, and got ready my presents for the master and mistress
of the house; they were two knives, three bracelets of false pearls, a
small looking-glass, and a bead necklace.  The horse neighed three or
four times, and I waited to hear some answers in a human voice, but I
heard no other returns than in the same dialect, only one or two a little
shriller than his.  I began to think that this house must belong to some
person of great note among them, because there appeared so much ceremony
before I could gain admittance.  But, that a man of quality should be
served all by horses, was beyond my comprehension.  I feared my brain was
disturbed by my sufferings and misfortunes.  I roused myself, and looked
about me in the room where I was left alone: this was furnished like the
first, only after a more elegant manner.  I rubbed my eyes often, but the
same objects still occurred.  I pinched my arms and sides to awake
myself, hoping I might be in a dream.  I then absolutely concluded, that
all these appearances could be nothing else but necromancy and magic.
But I had no time to pursue these reflections; for the gray horse came to
the door, and made me a sign to follow him into the third room where I
saw a very comely mare, together with a colt and foal, sitting on their
haunches upon mats of straw, not unartfully made, and perfectly neat and
clean.

The mare soon after my entrance rose from her mat, and coming up close,
after having nicely observed my hands and face, gave me a most
contemptuous look; and turning to the horse, I heard the word _Yahoo_
often repeated betwixt them; the meaning of which word I could not then
comprehend, although it was the first I had learned to pronounce.  But I
was soon better informed, to my everlasting mortification; for the horse,
beckoning to me with his head, and repeating the _hhuun_, _hhuun_, as he
did upon the road, which I understood was to attend him, led me out into
a kind of court, where was another building, at some distance from the
house.  Here we entered, and I saw three of those detestable creatures,
which I first met after my landing, feeding upon roots, and the flesh of
some animals, which I afterwards found to be that of asses and dogs, and
now and then a cow, dead by accident or disease.  They were all tied by
the neck with strong withes fastened to a beam; they held their food
between the claws of their fore feet, and tore it with their teeth.

The master horse ordered a sorrel nag, one of his servants, to untie the
largest of these animals, and take him into the yard.  The beast and I
were brought close together, and by our countenances diligently compared
both by master and servant, who thereupon repeated several times the word
_Yahoo_.  My horror and astonishment are not to be described, when I
observed in this abominable animal, a perfect human figure: the face of
it indeed was flat and broad, the nose depressed, the lips large, and the
mouth wide; but these differences are common to all savage nations, where
the lineaments of the countenance are distorted, by the natives suffering
their infants to lie grovelling on the earth, or by carrying them on
their backs, nuzzling with their face against the mothers’ shoulders.
The fore-feet of the _Yahoo_ differed from my hands in nothing else but
the length of the nails, the coarseness and brownness of the palms, and
the hairiness on the backs.  There was the same resemblance between our
feet, with the same differences; which I knew very well, though the
horses did not, because of my shoes and stockings; the same in every part
of our bodies except as to hairiness and colour, which I have already
described.

The great difficulty that seemed to stick with the two horses, was to see
the rest of my body so very different from that of a _Yahoo_, for which I
was obliged to my clothes, whereof they