and at least to counterfeit his former indulgent friendship. "What can
be wrong," she wrote, "in seeing and advising an unhappy young woman?
You cannot but know that your frowns make my life unsupportable."
Sometimes he treated the matter lightly; sometimes he showed annoyance;
sometimes he assured her of his esteem and love, but urged her not
to make herself or him "unhappy by imaginations." He was uniformly
unsuccessful in stopping Vanessa's importunity. He endeavoured, she
said, by severities to force her from him; she knew she was the cause of
uneasy reflections to him; but nothing would lessen her "inexpressible
passion."

Unfortunately he failed--partly no doubt from mistaken considerations
of kindness, partly because he shrank from losing her affection--to take
effective steps to put an end to Vanessa's hopes. It would have been
better if he had unhesitatingly made it clear to her that he could
not return her passion, and that if she could not be satisfied with
friendship the intimacy must cease. To quote Sir Henry Craik, "The
friendship had begun in literary guidance: it was strengthened by
flattery: it lived on a cold and almost stern repression, fed by
confidences as to literary schemes, and by occasional literary
compliments: but it never came to have a real hold over Swift's heart."

With 1716 we come to the alleged marriage with Stella. In 1752, seven
years after Swift's death, Lord Orrery, in his Remarks on Swift, said
that Stella was "the concealed, but undoubted, wife of Dr. Swift....
If my informations are right, she was married to Dr. Swift in the year
1716, by Dr. Ashe, then Bishop of Clogher." Ten years earlier, in 1742,
in a letter to Deane Swift which I have not seen quoted before, Orrery
spoke of the advantage of a wife to a man in his declining years; "nor
had the Dean felt a blow, or wanted a companion, had he been married,
or, in other words, had Stella lived." What this means is not at all
clear. In 1754, Dr. Delany, an old friend of Swift's, wrote, in comment
upon Orrery's Remarks, "Your account of his marriage is, I am satisfied,
true." In 1789, George Monck Berkeley, in his Literary Relics, said
that Swift and Stella were married by Dr. Ashe, "who himself related
the circumstances to Bishop Berkeley, by whose relict the story was
communicated to me." Dr. Ashe cannot have told Bishop Berkeley by
word of mouth, because Ashe died in 1717, the year after the supposed
marriage, and Berkeley was then still abroad. But Berkeley was at
the time tutor to Ashe's son, and may therefore have been informed by
letter, though it is difficult to believe that Ashe would write about
such a secret so soon after the event. Thomas Sheridan, on information
received from his father, Dr. Sheridan, Swift's friend, accepted the
story of the marriage in his book (1784), adding particulars which are
of very doubtful authenticity; and Johnson, in his Lives of the Poets,
says that Dr. Madden told him that Stella had related her "melancholy
story" to Dr. Sheridan before her death. On the other hand, Dr. Lyon,
Swift's attendant in his later years, disbelieved the story of the
marriage, which was, he said, "founded only on hearsay"; and Mrs.
Dingley "laughed at it as an idle tale," founded on suspicion.

Sir Henry Craik is satisfied with the evidence for the marriage. Mr.
Leslie Stephen is of opinion that it is inconclusive, and Forster could
find no evidence that is at all reasonably sufficient; while Mr. Stanley
Lane-Poole, Mr. Churton Collins, and others are strongly of opinion
that no such marriage ever took place. A full discussion of the evidence
would involve the consideration of the reliability of the witnesses, and
the probability of their having authentic information, and would be out
of place here. My own opinion is that the evidence for the marriage is
very far from convincing, and this view seems to be confirmed by all
that we know from his own letters of Swift's relations with Stella. It
has been suggested that she was pained by reports of Swift's intercourse
with Vanessa, and felt that his feelings towards herself were growing
colder; but this is surmise, and no satisfactory explanation has been
given to account for a form of marriage being gone through after so
many years of the closest friendship. There is no reason to suppose that
there was at the time any gossip in circulation about Stella, and if her
reputation was in question, a marriage of which the secret was carefully
kept would obviously be of no benefit to her. Moreover, we are told that
there was no change in their mode of life; if they were married, what
reason could there be for keeping it a secret, or for denying themselves
the closer relationship of marriage? The only possible benefit to
Stella was that Swift would be prevented marrying anyone else. It is
impossible, of course, to disprove a marriage which we are told was
secretly performed, without banns or licence or witnesses; but we may
reasonably require strong evidence for so startling a step. If we
reject the tale, the story of Swift's connection with Stella is at least
intelligible; while 