 that, I warrant you.--Why, this same Stella is
so unmerciful a writer, she has hardly left any room for Dingley. If you
have such summer there as here, sure the Wexford waters are good by this
time. I forgot what weather we had May 6th; go look in my journal. We
had terrible rain the 24th and 25th, and never a drop since. Yes, yes,
I remember Berested's bridge; the coach sosses up and down as one goes
that way, just as at Hockley-in-the-Hole.(29) I never impute any illness
or health I have to good or ill weather, but to want of exercise, or ill
air, or something I have eaten, or hard study, or sitting up; and so
I fence against those as well as I can: but who a deuce can help the
weather? Will Seymour,(30) the General, was excessively hot with the
sun shining full upon him; so he turns to the sun, and says, "Harkee,
friend, you had better go and ripen cucumbers than plague me at this
rate," etc. Another time, fretting at the heat, a gentleman by said it
was such weather as pleased God: Seymour said, "Perhaps it may; but I am
sure it pleases nobody else." Why, Madam Dingley, the First-Fruits
are done. Southwell told me they went to inquire about them, and Lord
Treasurer said they were done, and had been done long ago. And I'll tell
you a secret you must not mention, that the Duke of Ormond is ordered to
take notice of them in his speech in your Parliament: and I desire you
will take care to say on occasion that my Lord Treasurer Harley did it
many months ago, before the Duke was Lord Lieutenant. And yet I cannot
possibly come over yet: so get you gone to Wexford, and make Stella
well. Yes, yes, I take care not to walk late; I never did but once, and
there are five hundred people on the way as I walk. Tisdall is a puppy,
and I will excuse him the half-hour he would talk with me. As for the
Examiner, I have heard a whisper that after that of this day,(31) which
tells us what this Parliament has done, you will hardly find them so
good. I prophesy they will be trash for the future; and methinks in
this day's Examiner the author talks doubtfully, as if he would write no
more.(32) Observe whether the change be discovered in Dublin, only
for your own curiosity, that's all. Make a mouth there. Mrs. Vedeau's
business I have answered, and I hope the bill is not lost. Morrow. 'Tis
stewing hot, but I must rise and go to town between fire and water.
Morrow, sirrahs both, morrow.--At night. I dined to-day with Colonel
Crowe, Governor of Jamaica, and your friend Sterne. I presented Sterne
to my Lord Treasurer's brother,(33) and gave him his case, and engaged
him in his favour. At dinner there fell the swingingest long shower, and
the most grateful to me, that ever I saw: it thundered fifty times at
least, and the air is so cool that a body is able to live; and I walked
home to-night with comfort, and without dirt. I went this evening to
Lord Treasurer, and sat with him two hours, and we were in very good
humour, and he abused me, and called me Dr. Thomas Swift fifty times:
I have told you he does that when he has mind to make me mad.(34) Sir
Thomas Frankland gave me to-day a letter from Murry, accepting my bill;
so all is well: only, by a letter from Parvisol, I find there are some
perplexities.--Joe has likewise written to me, to thank me for what I
have done for him; and desires I would write to the Bishop of Clogher,
that Tom Ashe(35) may not hinder his father(36) from being portreve.
I have written and sent to Joe several times, that I will not trouble
myself at all about Trim. I wish them their liberty, but they do not
deserve it: so tell Joe, and send to him. I am mighty happy with this
rain: I was at the end of my patience, but now I live again. This cannot
go till Saturday; and perhaps I may go out of town with Lord Shelburne
and Lady Kerry to-morrow for two or three days. Lady Kerry has written
to desire it; but tomorrow I shall know farther.--O this dear rain, I
cannot forbear praising it: I never felt myself to be revived so in my
life. It lasted from three till five, hard as a horn, and mixed with
hail.

8. Morning. I am going to town, and will just finish this there, if I go
into the country with Lady Kerry and Lord Shelburne: so morrow, till an
hour or two hence.--In town. I met Cairnes, who, I suppose, will pay me
the money; though he says I must send him the bill first, and I will get
it done in absence. Farewell, etc. etc.




LETTER 25.

CHELSEA, June 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20.

I have been all this time at Wycombe, between Oxford and London, with
Lord Shelburne, who has the squire's house at the town's end, and an
estate there in a delicious country. Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt were with
us, and we passed our time well enough; and there I wholly disengaged
myself from all public thoughts, and everything but MD, who had the
impudence to send me a letter there; but I'll be revenged: I will
answer it. This day, the 20th, I came from Wycombe with Lady Kerry after
dinner, lighted at Hyde Park Corner, and walked: it was twenty-seven
miles, and we came it in about five hours.

21. I went at noon to see Mr. Sec