days before I recovered my strength; and that I might have no rest at
home, all the neighbouring gentlemen from a hundred miles round, hearing
of my fame, came to see me at my master’s own house.  There could not be
fewer than thirty persons with their wives and children (for the country
is very populous;) and my master demanded the rate of a full room
whenever he showed me at home, although it were only to a single family;
so that for some time I had but little ease every day of the week (except
Wednesday, which is their Sabbath,) although I were not carried to the
town.

My master, finding how profitable I was likely to be, resolved to carry
me to the most considerable cities of the kingdom.  Having therefore
provided himself with all things necessary for a long journey, and
settled his affairs at home, he took leave of his wife, and upon the 17th
of August, 1703, about two months after my arrival, we set out for the
metropolis, situate near the middle of that empire, and about three
thousand miles distance from our house.  My master made his daughter
Glumdalclitch ride behind him.  She carried me on her lap, in a box tied
about her waist.  The girl had lined it on all sides with the softest
cloth she could get, well quilted underneath, furnished it with her
baby’s bed, provided me with linen and other necessaries, and made
everything as convenient as she could.  We had no other company but a boy
of the house, who rode after us with the luggage.

My master’s design was to show me in all the towns by the way, and to
step out of the road for fifty or a hundred miles, to any village, or
person of quality’s house, where he might expect custom.  We made easy
journeys, of not above seven or eight score miles a-day; for
Glumdalclitch, on purpose to spare me, complained she was tired with the
trotting of the horse.  She often took me out of my box, at my own
desire, to give me air, and show me the country, but always held me fast
by a leading-string.  We passed over five or six rivers, many degrees
broader and deeper than the Nile or the Ganges: and there was hardly a
rivulet so small as the Thames at London-bridge.  We were ten weeks in
our journey, and I was shown in eighteen large towns, besides many
villages, and private families.

On the 26th day of October we arrived at the metropolis, called in their
language _Lorbrulgrud_, or Pride of the Universe.  My master took a
lodging in the principal street of the city, not far from the royal
palace, and put out bills in the usual form, containing an exact
description of my person and parts.  He hired a large room between three
and four hundred feet wide.  He provided a table sixty feet in diameter,
upon which I was to act my part, and pallisadoed it round three feet from
the edge, and as many high, to prevent my falling over.  I was shown ten
times a-day, to the wonder and satisfaction of all people.  I could now
speak the language tolerably well, and perfectly understood every word,
that was spoken to me.  Besides, I had learnt their alphabet, and could
make a shift to explain a sentence here and there; for Glumdalclitch had
been my instructor while we were at home, and at leisure hours during our
journey.  She carried a little book in her pocket, not much larger than a
Sanson’s Atlas; it was a common treatise for the use of young girls,
giving a short account of their religion: out of this she taught me my
letters, and interpreted the words.



CHAPTER III.


The author sent for to court.  The queen buys him of his master the
farmer, and presents him to the king.  He disputes with his majesty’s
great scholars.  An apartment at court provided for the author.  He is in
high favour with the queen.  He stands up for the honour of his own
country.  His quarrels with the queen’s dwarf.

The frequent labours I underwent every day, made, in a few weeks, a very
considerable change in my health: the more my master got by me, the more
insatiable he grew.  I had quite lost my stomach, and was almost reduced
to a skeleton.  The farmer observed it, and concluding I must soon die,
resolved to make as good a hand of me as he could.  While he was thus
reasoning and resolving with himself, a _sardral_, or gentleman-usher,
came from court, commanding my master to carry me immediately thither for
the diversion of the queen and her ladies.  Some of the latter had
already been to see me, and reported strange things of my beauty,
behaviour, and good sense.  Her majesty, and those who attended her, were
beyond measure delighted with my demeanour.  I fell on my knees, and
begged the honour of kissing her imperial foot; but this gracious
princess held out her little finger towards me, after I was set on the
table, which I embraced in both my arms, and put the tip of it with the
utmost respect to my lip.  She made me some general questions about my
country and my travels, which I answered as distinctly, and in as few
words as I could.  She asked, “whether I could be content to live at
court?”  I bowed down to the board of the table, and humbly answered
“that I was my master’s slave: but, if I were at my ow