ense to depart; and honoured me
with a letter of recommendation, under his own hand, to the Emperor of
Japan.  He likewise presented me with four hundred and forty-four large
pieces of gold (this nation delighting in even numbers), and a red
diamond, which I sold in England for eleven hundred pounds.

On the 6th of May, 1709, I took a solemn leave of his majesty, and all my
friends.  This prince was so gracious as to order a guard to conduct me
to Glanguenstald, which is a royal port to the south-west part of the
island.  In six days I found a vessel ready to carry me to Japan, and
spent fifteen days in the voyage.  We landed at a small port-town called
Xamoschi, situated on the south-east part of Japan; the town lies on the
western point, where there is a narrow strait leading northward into
along arm of the sea, upon the north-west part of which, Yedo, the
metropolis, stands.  At landing, I showed the custom-house officers my
letter from the king of Luggnagg to his imperial majesty.  They knew the
seal perfectly well; it was as broad as the palm of my hand.  The
impression was, _A king lifting up a lame beggar from the earth_.  The
magistrates of the town, hearing of my letter, received me as a public
minister.  They provided me with carriages and servants, and bore my
charges to Yedo; where I was admitted to an audience, and delivered my
letter, which was opened with great ceremony, and explained to the
Emperor by an interpreter, who then gave me notice, by his majesty’s
order, “that I should signify my request, and, whatever it were, it
should be granted, for the sake of his royal brother of Luggnagg.”  This
interpreter was a person employed to transact affairs with the
Hollanders.  He soon conjectured, by my countenance, that I was a
European, and therefore repeated his majesty’s commands in Low Dutch,
which he spoke perfectly well.  I answered, as I had before determined,
“that I was a Dutch merchant, shipwrecked in a very remote country,
whence I had travelled by sea and land to Luggnagg, and then took
shipping for Japan; where I knew my countrymen often traded, and with
some of these I hoped to get an opportunity of returning into Europe: I
therefore most humbly entreated his royal favour, to give order that I
should be conducted in safety to Nangasac.”  To this I added another
petition, “that for the sake of my patron the king of Luggnagg, his
majesty would condescend to excuse my performing the ceremony imposed on
my countrymen, of trampling upon the crucifix: because I had been thrown
into his kingdom by my misfortunes, without any intention of trading.”
When this latter petition was interpreted to the Emperor, he seemed a
little surprised; and said, “he believed I was the first of my countrymen
who ever made any scruple in this point; and that he began to doubt,
whether I was a real Hollander, or not; but rather suspected I must be a
Christian.  However, for the reasons I had offered, but chiefly to
gratify the king of Luggnagg by an uncommon mark of his favour, he would
comply with the singularity of my humour; but the affair must be managed
with dexterity, and his officers should be commanded to let me pass, as
it were by forgetfulness.  For he assured me, that if the secret should
be discovered by my countrymen the Dutch, they would cut my throat in the
voyage.”  I returned my thanks, by the interpreter, for so unusual a
favour; and some troops being at that time on their march to Nangasac,
the commanding officer had orders to convey me safe thither, with
particular instructions about the business of the crucifix.

On the 9th day of June, 1709, I arrived at Nangasac, after a very long
and troublesome journey.  I soon fell into the company of some Dutch
sailors belonging to the Amboyna, of Amsterdam, a stout ship of 450 tons.
I had lived long in Holland, pursuing my studies at Leyden, and I spoke
Dutch well.  The seamen soon knew whence I came last: they were curious
to inquire into my voyages and course of life.  I made up a story as
short and probable as I could, but concealed the greatest part.  I knew
many persons in Holland.  I was able to invent names for my parents, whom
I pretended to be obscure people in the province of Gelderland.  I would
have given the captain (one Theodorus Vangrult) what he pleased to ask
for my voyage to Holland; but understanding I was a surgeon, he was
contented to take half the usual rate, on condition that I would serve
him in the way of my calling.  Before we took shipping, I was often asked
by some of the crew, whether I had performed the ceremony above
mentioned?  I evaded the question by general answers; “that I had
satisfied the Emperor and court in all particulars.”  However, a
malicious rogue of a skipper went to an officer, and pointing to me, told
him, “I had not yet trampled on the crucifix;” but the other, who had
received instructions to let me pass, gave the rascal twenty strokes on
the shoulders with a bamboo; after which I was no more troubled with such
questions.

Nothing happened worth mentioning in this voyage.  We sailed with a fair
wind to the Cape of Good