ght to consider that this
was twelve days right,(35) so that makes it pretty even. O, the sirry
zade,(36) with her excuses of a fortnight at Ballygall, seeing their
friends, and landlord running away. O Rold, hot a cruttle(37) and a
bustle!--No--if you will have it--I am not Dean of Wells,(38) nor know
anything of being so; nor is there anything in the story; and that's
enough. It was not Roper(39) sent that news: Roper is my humble
slave.--Yes, I heard of your resolves, and that Burton was embroiled.
Stratford spoke to me in his behalf; but I said I hated the rascal. Poor
Catherine gone to Wales? But she will come back again, I hope. I would
see her in my journey, if she were near the road; and bring her over.
Joe(40) is a fool; that sort of business is not at all in my way, pray
put him off it. People laugh when I mention it. Bed ee paadon, Maram;
I'm drad oo rike ee aplon:(41) no harm, I hope. And so... DD wonders
she has not a letter at the day; oo'll have it soon.... The D---- he is!
married to that vengeance! Men are not to be believed. I don't think her
a fool. Who would have her? Dilly will be governed like an ass; and she
will govern like a lion. Is not that true, Ppt? Why, Sterne told me he
left you at ombre with Leigh; and yet you never saw him. I know nothing
of his wife being here: it may cost her a c---(42) (I don't care
to write that word plain). He is a little in doubt about buying his
commission. Yes, I will bring oo over all the little papers I can think
on. I thought I sent you, by Leigh, all that were good at that time. The
author of the Sea Eclogues sent books to the Society yesterday, and we
gave him guineas apiece; and, maybe, will do further from him (for him,
I mean). So the Bishop of Clogher, and lady, were your guests for a
night or two. Why, Ppt, you are grown a great gamester and company
keeper. I did say to myself, when I read those names, just what you
guess; and you clear up the matter wonderfully. You may converse with
those two nymphs if you please, but the ----- take me if ever I do. Iss,
fais, it is delightful to hear that Ppt is every way Ppt now, in health,
and looks, and all. Pray God keep her so, many, many, many years. I
doubt the session will not be over till the end of April; however, I
shall not wait for it, if the Ministry will let me go sooner. I wish I
were just now in my garden at Laracor. I would set out for Dublin early
on Monday, and bring you an account of my young trees, which you are
better acquainted with than the Ministry, and so am I. Oh, now you have
got Number 41, have you so? Why, perhaps, I forgot, and kept it to next
post in my pocket: I have done such tricks. My cold is better, but not
gone. I want air and riding. Hold ee tongue, oo Ppt, about colds at
Moor Park! the case is quite different. I will do what you desire me for
Tisdall, when I next see Lord Anglesea. Pray give him my service. The
weather is warm these three or four days, and rainy. I am to dine to-day
with Lewis and Darteneuf at Somers's,(43) the Clerk of the Kitchen at
Court. Darteneuf loves good bits and good sups. Good mollows richar
sollohs.--At night. I dined, as I said; and it cost me a shilling for a
chair. It has rained all day, and is very warm. Lady Masham's young son,
my nephew, is very ill; and she is out of mind(44) with grief. I pity
her mightily. I am got home early, and going to write to the Bishop of
Clogher, but have no politics to send him. Nite my own two deelest saucy
d(ear) ones.

22. I am going into the City this morning with a friend about some
business; so I will immediately seal up this, and keep it in my pottick
till evening, and zen put it in the post. The weather continues warm and
gloomy. I have heard no news since I went to bed, so can say no more.
Pray send... that I may have time to write to...(45) about it. I have
here underneath given order for forty shillings to Mrs. Brent, which you
will send to Parvisol. Farewell, deelest deel MD, and rove Pdfr dearly
dearly. Farewell, MD, MD, FW, FW, FW, ME, ME, ME, Lele lele lele lele
lele lele, and lele aden.




LETTER 44.(1)

LONDON, March 22, 1711-12.

Ugly, nasty weather. I was in the City to-day with Mrs. Wesley and Mrs.
Perceval, to get money from a banker for Mrs. Wesley, who goes to Bath
on Thursday. I left them there, and dined with a friend, and went to see
Lord Treasurer; but he had people with him I did not know: so I went to
Lady Masham's, and lost a crown with her at picquet, and then sat with
Lord Masham and Lord Treasurer, etc., there till past one; but I had
my man with me, to come home. I gave in my forty-third, and one for the
Bishop of Clogher, to the post-office, as I came from the City; and
so oo know 'tis late now, and I have nothing to say for this day. Our
Mohocks are all vanished; however, I shall take care of my person. Nite
my own two deelest nuntyes MD.

23. I was this morning, before church, with the Secretary, about Lord
Abercorn's business, and some others. My soliciting season is come, and
will last as long as the session. I went late to Court, and the company
was almost gone. The Court serves 