and rides. Our hot
weather ended in May, and all this month has been moderate: it was then
so hot I was not able to endure it; I was miserable every moment, and
found myself disposed to be peevish and quarrelsome: I believe a very
hot country would make me stark mad.--Yes, my head continues pretty
tolerable, and I impute it all to walking. Does Stella eat fruit? I eat
a little; but I always repent, and resolve against it. No, in very hot
weather I always go to town by water; but I constantly walk back, for
then the sun is down. And so Mrs. Proby(13) goes with you to Wexford:
she's admirable company; you'll grow plaguy wise with those you
frequent. Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Proby! take care of infection. I believe
my two hundred pounds will be paid, but that Sir Alexander Cairnes is a
scrupulous puppy: I left the bill with Mr. Stratford, who is to have the
money. Now, Madam Stella, what say you? you ride every day; I know that
already, sirrah; and, if you rid every day for a twelvemonth, you
would be still better and better. No, I hope Parvisol will not have
the impudence to make you stay an hour for the money; if he does, I'll
UN-PARVISOL him; pray let me know. O Lord, how hasty we are! Stella
can't stay writing and writing; she must write and go a cock-horse, pray
now. Well, but the horses are not come to the door; the fellow can't
find the bridle; your stirrup is broken; where did you put the whips,
Dingley? Marget, where have you laid Mrs. Johnson's ribbon to tie about
her? reach me my mask: sup up this before you go. So, so, a gallop, a
gallop: sit fast, sirrah, and don't ride hard upon the stones.--Well,
now Stella is gone, tell me, Dingley, is she a good girl? and what news
is that you are to tell me?--No, I believe the box is not lost: Sterne
says it is not.--No, faith, you must go to Wexford without seeing
your Duke of Ormond, unless you stay on purpose; perhaps you may be
so wise.--I tell you this is your sixteenth letter; will you never be
satisfied? No, no, I will walk late no more; I ought less to venture it
than other people, and so I was told: but I will return to lodge in
town next Thursday. When you come from Wexford, I would have you send
a letter of attorney to Mr. Benjamin Tooke, bookseller, in London,
directed to me; and he shall manage your affair. I have your parchment
safely locked up in London.--O, Madam Stella, welcome home; was it
pleasant riding? did your horse stumble? how often did the man light to
settle your stirrup? ride nine miles! faith, you have galloped indeed.
Well, but where is the fine thing you promised me? I have been a good
boy, ask Dingley else. I believe you did not meet the fine-thing-man:
faith, you are a cheat. So you will see Raymond and his wife in town.
Faith, that riding to Laracor gives me short sighs, as well as you. All
the days I have passed here have been dirt to those. I have been gaining
enemies by the scores, and friends by the couples; which is against the
rules of wisdom, because they say one enemy can do more hurt than
ten friends can do good. But I have had my revenge at least, if I
get nothing else. And so let Fate govern.--Now I think your letter is
answered; and mine will be shorter than ordinary, because it must go
to-day. We have had a great deal of scattering rain for some days past,
yet it hardly keeps down the dust.--We have plays acted in our town; and
Patrick was at one of them, oh oh. He was damnably mauled one day when
he was drunk; he was at cuffs with a brother-footman, who dragged him
along the floor upon his face, which looked for a week after as if he
had the leprosy; and I was glad enough to see it. I have been ten times
sending him over to you; yet now he has new clothes, and a laced hat,
which the hatter brought by his orders, and he offered to pay for the
lace out of his wages.--I am to dine to-day with Dilly at Sir Andrew
Fountaine's, who has bought a new house, and will be weary of it in half
a year. I must rise and shave, and walk to town, unless I go with the
Dean in his chariot at twelve, which is too late: and I have not seen
that Lord Peterborow yet. The Duke of Shrewsbury is almost well again,
and will be abroad in a day or two: what care you? There it is now: you
do not care for my friends. Farewell, my dearest lives and delights; I
love you better than ever, if possible, as hope saved, I do, and ever
will. God Almighty bless you ever, and make us happy together! I pray
for this twice every day; and I hope God will hear my poor hearty
prayers.--Remember, if I am used ill and ungratefully, as I have
formerly been, 'tis what I am prepared for, and shall not wonder at
it. Yet I am now envied, and thought in high favour, and have every
day numbers of considerable men teasing me to solicit for them. And the
Ministry all use me perfectly well; and all that know them say they
love me. Yet I can count upon nothing, nor will, but upon MD's love and
kindness.--They think me useful; they pretended they were afraid of none
but me, and that they resolved to have me; they have often confessed
this: yet all makes little impression on me.--Pox of these s