 but I can bear that. I have learned to hear and see, and say
nothing. I was to see the Duchess of Hamilton to-day, and met Blith(8)
of Ireland just going out of her house into his coach. I asked her how
she came to receive young fellows. It seems he had a ball in the Duke
of Hamilton's house when the Duke died; and the Duchess got an
advertisement put in the Postboy,(9) reflecting on the ball, because
the Marlborough daughters(10) were there; and Blith came to beg the
Duchess's pardon, and clear himself. He's a sad dog. Nite poo dee
deelest MD.

5. Lady Masham has miscarried; but is well almost again. I have many
visits to-day. I met Blith at the Duke of Ormond's; and he begged me to
carry him to the Duchess of Hamilton, to beg her pardon again. I did
on purpose to see how the blunderbuss behaved himself; but I begged the
Duchess to use him mercifully, for she is the devil of a teaser. The
good of it is, she ought to beg his pardon, for he meant no harm; yet
she would not allow him to put in an advertisement to clear himself from
hers, though hers was all a lie. He appealed to me, and I gravely gave
it against him. I was at Court to-day, and the foreign Ministers have
got a trick of employing me to speak for them to Lord Treasurer and Lord
Bolingbroke; which I do when the case is reasonable. The College(11)
need not fear; I will not be their Governor. I dined with Sir Thomas
Hanmer and his Duchess.(12) The Duke of Ormond was there, but we parted
soon, and I went to visit Lord Pembroke for the first time; but it was
to see some curious books. Lord Cholmondeley(13) came in; but I would
not talk to him, though he made many advances. I hate the scoundrel for
all he is your Griffith's friend.--Yes, yes, I am abused enough, if that
be all. Nite sollahs.

6. I was to-day at an auction of pictures with Pratt,(14) and laid
out two pound five shillings for a picture of Titian, and if it were
a Titian it would be worth twice as many pounds. If I am cheated, I'll
part with it to Lord Masham: if it be a bargain, I'll keep it to myself.
That's my conscience. But I made Pratt buy several pictures for Lord
Masham. Pratt is a great virtuoso that way. I dined with Lord Treasurer,
but made him go to Court at eight. I always tease him to be gone. I
thought to have made Parnell dine with him, but he was ill; his head
is out of order like mine, but more constant, poor boy!--I was at Lord
Treasurer's levee with the Provost, to ask a book for the College.--I
never go to his levee, unless to present somebody. For all oor rallying,
saucy(15) Ppt, as hope saved, I expected they would have decided about
me long ago; and as hope saved, as soon as ever things are given away
and I not provided for, I will be gone with the very first opportunity,
and put up bag and baggage. But people are slower than can be thought.
Nite MD.

7. Yes, I hope Leigh will soon be gone, a p-- on him! I met him once,
and he talked gravely to me of not seeing the Irish bishops here, and
the Irish gentlemen; but I believe my answers fretted him enough. I
would not dine with Lord Treasurer to-day, though it was Saturday (for
he has engaged me for to-morrow), but went and dined with Lord Masham,
and played at ombre, sixpenny running ombre, for three hours. There were
three voles(16) against me, and I was once a great loser, but came off
for three shillings and sixpence. One may easily lose five guineas at
it. Lady Orkney is gone out of town to-day, and I could not see her for
laziness, but writ to her. She has left me some physic. Fais, I never
knew MD's politics before, and I think it pretty extraordinary, and a
great compliment to you, and I believe never three people conversed so
much with so little politics. I avoid all conversation with the other
party; it is not to be borne, and I am sorry for it. O yes, things (are)
very dear. DD must come in at last with DD's two eggs a penny. There the
proverb was well applied. Parvisol has sent me a bill of fifty pounds,
as I ordered him, which, I hope, will serve me, and bring me over. Pray
God MD does not be delayed for it; but I have had very little from him
this long time. I was not at Court to-day; a wonder! Nite sollahs...
Pdfr.

8. Oo must know, I give chocolate almost every day to two or three
people that I suffer to come to see me in a morning. My man begins to
lie pretty well. 'Tis nothing for people to be denied ten times. My man
knows all I will see, and denies me to everybody else. This is the
day of the Queen's coming to the Crown, and the day Lord Treasurer was
stabbed by Guiscard. I was at Court, where everybody had their Birthday
clothes on, and I dined with Lord Treasurer, who was very fine. He
showed me some of the Queen's speech, which I corrected in several
places, and penned the vote of address of thanks for the speech; but
I was of opinion the House should not sit on Tuesday next, unless they
hear the peace is signed; that is, provided they are sure it will be
signed the week after, and so have one scolding for all. Nite MD.

9. Lord Treasurer would have had me dine with him to-day; he desired
me last night, but I r