ing
home my sore shin itched, and I forgot what it was, and rubbed off the
scab, and blood came; but I am now got into bed, and have put on alum
curd, and it is almost well. Lord Rivers told me yesterday a piece of
bad news, as a secret, that the Pretender is going to be married to
the Duke of Savoy's daughter.(16) 'Tis very bad if it be true. We were
walking in the Mall with some Scotch lords, and he could not tell it
until they were gone, and he bade me tell it to none but the Secretary
of State and MD. This goes tomorrow, and I have no room but to bid my
dearest little MD good-night. 24. I will now seal up this letter, and
send it; for I reckon to have none from you ('tis morning now) between
this and night; and I will put it in the post with my own hands. I am
going out in great haste; so farewell, etc.




LETTER 19.

LONDON, March 24, 1710-11.

It was a little cross in Presto not to send to-day to the Coffee-house
to see whether there was a letter from MD before I sent away mine; but,
faith, I did it on purpose, because I would scorn to answer two letters
of yours successively. This way of journal is the worst in the world for
writing of news, unless one does it the last day; and so I will observe
henceforward, if there be any politics or stuff worth sending. My shin
mends in spite of the scratching last night. I dined to-day at
Ned Southwell's with the Bishop of Ossory(1) and a parcel of Irish
gentlemen. Have you yet seen any of the Spectators? Just three weeks
to-day since I had your last, N.11. I am afraid I have lost one by the
packet that was taken; that will vex me, considering the pains MD take
to write, especially poor pretty Stella, and her weak eyes. God bless
them and the owner, and send them well, and little me together, I hope
ere long. This illness of Mr. Harley puts everything backwards, and he
is still down, and like to be so, by that extravasated blood which comes
from his breast to the wound: it was by the second blow Guiscard
gave him after the penknife was broken. I am shocked at that villainy
whenever I think of it. Biddy Floyd is past danger, but will lose all
her beauty: she had them mighty thick, especially about her nose.

25. Morning. I wish you a merry New Year; this is the first day of the
year, you know, with us, and 'tis Lady-day. I must rise and go to my
Lord Keeper: it is not shaving-day to-day, so I shall be early. I am
to dine with Mr. Secretary St. John. Good-morrow, my mistresses
both, good-morrow. Stella will be peeping out of her room at Mrs. De
Caudres'(2) down upon the folks as they come from church; and there
comes Mrs. Proby,(3) and that is my Lady Southwell,(4) and there is
Lady Betty Rochfort.(5) I long to hear how you are settled in your new
lodgings. I wish I were rid of my old ones, and that Mrs. Brent could
contrive to put up my books in boxes, and lodge them in some safe place,
and you keep my papers of importance. But I must rise, I tell you.--At
night. So I visited and dined as I told you, and what of that? We have
let Guiscard be buried at last, after showing him pickled in a trough
this fortnight for twopence apiece: and the fellow that showed would
point to his body, and, "See, gentlemen, this is the wound that was
given him by his Grace the Duke of Ormond; and this is the wound," etc.,
and then the show was over, and another set of rabble came in. 'Tis hard
our laws would not suffer us to hang his body in chains, because he
was not tried; and in the eye of our law every man is innocent till
then.--Mr. Harley is still very weak, and never out of bed.

26. This was a most delicious day; and my shin being past danger, I
walked like lightning above two hours in the Park. We have generally one
fair day, and then a great deal of rain for three or four days together.
All things are at a stop in Parliament for want of Mr. Harley; they
cannot stir an inch without him in their most material affairs: and
we fear, by the caprice of Radcliffe, who will admit none but his own
surgeon,(6) he has not been well looked after. I dined at an alehouse
with Mr. Lewis, but had his wine. Don't you begin to see the flowers and
blossoms of the field? How busy should I be now at Laracor! No news
of your box? I hope you have it, and are this minute drinking the
chocolate, and that the smell of the Brazil tobacco has not affected it.
I would be glad to know whether you like it, because I would send you
more by people that are now every day thinking of going to Ireland;
therefore pray tell me, and tell me soon: and I will have the strong
box.

27. A rainy, wretched, scurvy day from morning till night: and my
neighbour Vanhomrigh invited me to dine with them and this evening I
passed at Mr. Prior's with Dr. Freind; and 'tis now past twelve, so I
must go sleep.

28. Morning. O, faith, you're an impudent saucy couple of sluttikins for
presuming to write so soon, said I to myself this morning; who knows but
there may be a letter from MD at the Coffee-house? Well, you must know,
and so, I just now sent Patrick, and he brought me three letters, but
not one from MD, no indeed, for I read all the super