 with several
particulars, all pure invention; and I doubt not but it will take.

Sept. 1. Morning. I go to-day to Windsor with Mr. Secretary; and Lord
Treasurer has promised to bring me back. The weather has been fine for
some time, and I believe we shall have a great deal of dust.--At night.
Windsor. The Secretary and I dined to-day at Parson's Green, at my Lord
Peterborow's house, who has left it and his gardens to the Secretary
during his absence. It is the finest garden I have ever seen about this
town; and abundance of hot walls for grapes, where they are in great
plenty, and ripening fast. I durst not eat any fruit but one fig; but
I brought a basket full to my friend Lewis here at Windsor. Does Stella
never eat any? what, no apricots at Donnybrook! nothing but claret and
ombre! I envy people maunching and maunching peaches and grapes, and I
not daring to eat a bit. My head is pretty well, only a sudden turn any
time makes me giddy for a moment, and sometimes it feels very
stuffed; but if it grows no worse, I can bear it very well. I take all
opportunities of walking; and we have a delicious park here just joining
to the Castle, and an avenue in the great park very wide and two miles
long, set with a double row of elms on each side. Were you ever at
Windsor? I was once, a great while ago; but had quite forgotten it.

2. The Queen has the gout, and did not come to chapel, nor stir out from
her chamber, but received the sacrament there, as she always does the
first Sunday in the month. Yet we had a great Court; and, among others,
I saw your Ingoldsby,(11) who, seeing me talk very familiarly with
the Keeper, Treasurer, etc., came up and saluted me, and began a very
impertinent discourse about the siege of Bouchain. I told him I could
not answer his questions, but I would bring him one that should; so
I went and fetched Sutton (who brought over the express about a
month ago), and delivered him to the General, and bid him answer his
questions; and so I left them together. Sutton after some time comes
back in a rage, finds me with Lord Rivers and Masham, and there
complains of the trick I had played him, and swore he had been plagued
to death with Ingoldsby's talk. But he told me Ingoldsby asked him what
I meant by bringing him; so, I suppose, he smoked me a little. So we
laughed, etc. My Lord Willoughby,(12) who is one of the chaplains, and
Prebendary of Windsor, read prayers last night to the family; and the
Bishop of Bristol, who is Dean of Windsor, officiated last night at the
Cathedral. This they do to be popular; and it pleases mightily. I dined
with Mr. Masham, because he lets me have a select company: for the Court
here have got by the end a good thing I said to the Secretary some weeks
ago. He showed me his bill of fare, to tempt me to dine with him. "Poh,"
said I, "I value not your bill of fare; give me your bill of company."
Lord Treasurer was mightily pleased, and told it everybody as a notable
thing. I reckon upon returning to-morrow: they say the Bishop will then
have the Privy Seal delivered him at a great Council.

3. Windsor still. The Council was held so late to-day that I do not go
back to town till to-morrow. The Bishop was sworn Privy Councillor, and
had the Privy Seal given him: and now the patents are passed for those
who were this long time to be made lords or earls. Lord Raby,(13) who is
Earl of Strafford, is on Thursday to marry a namesake of Stella's; the
daughter of Sir H. Johnson in the City; he has three-score thousand
pounds with her, ready money; besides the rest at the father's death. I
have got my friend Stratford to be one of the directors of the South Sea
Company, who were named to-day. My Lord Treasurer did it for me a month
ago; and one of those whom I got to be printer of the Gazette I am
recommending to be printer to the same company. He treated Mr. Lewis and
me to-day at dinner. I supped last night and this with Lord Treasurer,
Keeper, etc., and took occasion to mention the printer. I said it was
the same printer whom my Lord Treasurer has appointed to print for the
South Sea Company. He denied, and I insisted on it; and I got the laugh
on my side.

London, 4. I came as far as Brentford in Lord Rivers's chariot, who
had business with Lord Treasurer; then I went into Lord Treasurer's. We
stopped at Kensington, where Lord Treasurer went to see Mrs. Masham,
who is now what they call in the straw. We got to town by three, and I
lighted at Lord Treasurer's, who commanded me not to stir: but I was not
well; and when he went up, I begged the young lord to excuse me, and so
went into the City by water, where I could be easier, and dined with the
printer, and dictated to him some part of Prior's Journey to France. I
walked from the City, for I take all occasions of exercise. Our journey
was horridly dusty.

5. When I went out to-day, I found it had rained mightily in the night,
and the streets were as dirty as winter: it is very refreshing after ten
days dry.--I went into the City, and dined with Stratford, thanked him
for his books, gave him joy of his being director, of which he had the
fir