elling extremity points downwards, the
island mounts directly upwards.  When the position of the stone is
oblique, the motion of the island is so too: for in this magnet, the
forces always act in lines parallel to its direction.

By this oblique motion, the island is conveyed to different parts of the
monarch’s dominions.  To explain the manner of its progress, let _A_ _B_
represent a line drawn across the dominions of Balnibarbi, let the line
_c_ _d_ represent the loadstone, of which let _d_ be the repelling end,
and _c_ the attracting end, the island being over _C_: let the stone be
placed in position _c_ _d_, with its repelling end downwards; then the
island will be driven upwards obliquely towards _D_.  When it is arrived
at _D_, let the stone be turned upon its axle, till its attracting end
points towards _E_, and then the island will be carried obliquely towards
_E_; where, if the stone be again turned upon its axle till it stands in
the position _E_ _F_, with its repelling point downwards, the island will
rise obliquely towards _F_, where, by directing the attracting end
towards _G_, the island may be carried to _G_, and from _G_ to _H_, by
turning the stone, so as to make its repelling extremity to point
directly downward.  And thus, by changing the situation of the stone, as
often as there is occasion, the island is made to rise and fall by turns
in an oblique direction, and by those alternate risings and fallings (the
obliquity being not considerable) is conveyed from one part of the
dominions to the other.

But it must be observed, that this island cannot move beyond the extent
of the dominions below, nor can it rise above the height of four miles.
For which the astronomers (who have written large systems concerning the
stone) assign the following reason: that the magnetic virtue does not
extend beyond the distance of four miles, and that the mineral, which
acts upon the stone in the bowels of the earth, and in the sea about six
leagues distant from the shore, is not diffused through the whole globe,
but terminated with the limits of the king’s dominions; and it was easy,
from the great advantage of such a superior situation, for a prince to
bring under his obedience whatever country lay within the attraction of
that magnet.

When the stone is put parallel to the plane of the horizon, the island
stands still; for in that case the extremities of it, being at equal
distance from the earth, act with equal force, the one in drawing
downwards, the other in pushing upwards, and consequently no motion can
ensue.

This loadstone is under the care of certain astronomers, who, from time
to time, give it such positions as the monarch directs.  They spend the
greatest part of their lives in observing the celestial bodies, which
they do by the assistance of glasses, far excelling ours in goodness.
For, although their largest telescopes do not exceed three feet, they
magnify much more than those of a hundred with us, and show the stars
with greater clearness.  This advantage has enabled them to extend their
discoveries much further than our astronomers in Europe; for they have
made a catalogue of ten thousand fixed stars, whereas the largest of ours
do not contain above one third part of that number.  They have likewise
discovered two lesser stars, or satellites, which revolve about Mars;
whereof the innermost is distant from the centre of the primary planet
exactly three of his diameters, and the outermost, five; the former
revolves in the space of ten hours, and the latter in twenty-one and a
half; so that the squares of their periodical times are very near in the
same proportion with the cubes of their distance from the centre of Mars;
which evidently shows them to be governed by the same law of gravitation
that influences the other heavenly bodies.

They have observed ninety-three different comets, and settled their
periods with great exactness.  If this be true (and they affirm it with
great confidence) it is much to be wished, that their observations were
made public, whereby the theory of comets, which at present is very lame
and defective, might be brought to the same perfection with other arts of
astronomy.

The king would be the most absolute prince in the universe, if he could
but prevail on a ministry to join with him; but these having their
estates below on the continent, and considering that the office of a
favourite has a very uncertain tenure, would never consent to the
enslaving of their country.

If any town should engage in rebellion or mutiny, fall into violent
factions, or refuse to pay the usual tribute, the king has two methods of
reducing them to obedience.  The first and the mildest course is, by
keeping the island hovering over such a town, and the lands about it,
whereby he can deprive them of the benefit of the sun and the rain, and
consequently afflict the inhabitants with dearth and diseases: and if the
crime deserve it, they are at the same time pelted from above with great
stones, against which they have no defence but by creeping into cellars
or caves, while the roofs of their houses are beaten 