e enacted,
repealed, or altered: and these nobles have likewise the decision of all
our possessions, without appeal.” {514}



CHAPTER VII.


The author’s great love of his native country.  His master’s observations
upon the constitution and administration of England, as described by the
author, with parallel cases and comparisons.  His master’s observations
upon human nature.

The reader may be disposed to wonder how I could prevail on myself to
give so free a representation of my own species, among a race of mortals
who are already too apt to conceive the vilest opinion of humankind, from
that entire congruity between me and their _Yahoos_.  But I must freely
confess, that the many virtues of those excellent quadrupeds, placed in
opposite view to human corruptions, had so far opened my eyes and
enlarged my understanding, that I began to view the actions and passions
of man in a very different light, and to think the honour of my own kind
not worth managing; which, besides, it was impossible for me to do,
before a person of so acute a judgment as my master, who daily convinced
me of a thousand faults in myself, whereof I had not the least perception
before, and which, with us, would never be numbered even among human
infirmities.  I had likewise learned, from his example, an utter
detestation of all falsehood or disguise; and truth appeared so amiable
to me, that I determined upon sacrificing every thing to it.

Let me deal so candidly with the reader as to confess that there was yet
a much stronger motive for the freedom I took in my representation of
things.  I had not yet been a year in this country before I contracted
such a love and veneration for the inhabitants, that I entered on a firm
resolution never to return to humankind, but to pass the rest of my life
among these admirable _Houyhnhnms_, in the contemplation and practice of
every virtue, where I could have no example or incitement to vice.  But
it was decreed by fortune, my perpetual enemy, that so great a felicity
should not fall to my share.  However, it is now some comfort to reflect,
that in what I said of my countrymen, I extenuated their faults as much
as I durst before so strict an examiner; and upon every article gave as
favourable a turn as the matter would bear.  For, indeed, who is there
alive that will not be swayed by his bias and partiality to the place of
his birth?

I have related the substance of several conversations I had with my
master during the greatest part of the time I had the honour to be in his
service; but have, indeed, for brevity sake, omitted much more than is
here set down.

When I had answered all his questions, and his curiosity seemed to be
fully satisfied, he sent for me one morning early, and commanded me to
sit down at some distance (an honour which he had never before conferred
upon me).  He said, “he had been very seriously considering my whole
story, as far as it related both to myself and my country; that he looked
upon us as a sort of animals, to whose share, by what accident he could
not conjecture, some small pittance of reason had fallen, whereof we made
no other use, than by its assistance, to aggravate our natural
corruptions, and to acquire new ones, which nature had not given us; that
we disarmed ourselves of the few abilities she had bestowed; had been
very successful in multiplying our original wants, and seemed to spend
our whole lives in vain endeavours to supply them by our own inventions;
that, as to myself, it was manifest I had neither the strength nor
agility of a common _Yahoo_; that I walked infirmly on my hinder feet;
had found out a contrivance to make my claws of no use or defence, and to
remove the hair from my chin, which was intended as a shelter from the
sun and the weather: lastly, that I could neither run with speed, nor
climb trees like my brethren,” as he called them, “the _Yahoos_ in his
country.

“That our institutions of government and law were plainly owing to our
gross defects in reason, and by consequence in virtue; because reason
alone is sufficient to govern a rational creature; which was, therefore,
a character we had no pretence to challenge, even from the account I had
given of my own people; although he manifestly perceived, that, in order
to favour them, I had concealed many particulars, and often said the
thing which was not.

“He was the more confirmed in this opinion, because, he observed, that as
I agreed in every feature of my body with other _Yahoos_, except where it
was to my real disadvantage in point of strength, speed, and activity,
the shortness of my claws, and some other particulars where nature had no
part; so from the representation I had given him of our lives, our
manners, and our actions, he found as near a resemblance in the
disposition of our minds.”  He said, “the _Yahoos_ were known to hate one
another, more than they did any different species of animals; and the
reason usually assigned was, the odiousness of their own shapes, which
all could see in the rest, but not in themselves.  He had therefore begun
to think it not unwise in us to cover our bodies, a