ve seriously I
should not think of the place twice a year. Nothing there ever makes the
subject of talk in any company where I am.

7. I went to-day to the City on business; but stopped at a printer's,
and stayed there: it was a most delicious day. I hear the Parliament is
to be prorogued for a fortnight longer; I suppose, either because the
Queen has the gout, or that Lord Treasurer is not well, or that they
would do something more towards a peace. I called at Lord Treasurer's
at noon, and sat a while with Lord Harley, but his father was asleep.
A bookseller has reprinted or new-titled a sermon of Tom Swift's,(5)
printed last year, and publishes an advertisement calling it Dr. Swift's
Sermon. Some friend of Lord Galway(6) has, by his directions, published
a four-shilling book about his conduct in Spain, to defend him; I
have but just seen it. But what care you for books, except Presto's
Miscellanies? Leigh promised to call and see me, but has not yet; I hope
he will take care of his cargo, and get your Chester box. A murrain take
that box! everything is spoiled that is in it. How does the strong box
do? You say nothing of Raymond: is his wife brought to bed again; or
how? has he finished his house; paid his debts; and put out the rest
of the money to use? I am glad to hear poor Joe is like to get his two
hundred pounds. I suppose Trim is now reduced to slavery again. I am
glad of it; the people were as great rascals as the gentlemen. But I
must go to bed, sirrahs: the Secretary is still at Hampton Court with my
papers, or is come only to-night. They plague me with attending them.

8. I was with the Secretary this morning, and we dined with Prior, and
did business this afternoon till about eight; and I must alter and undo,
and a clutter. I am glad the Parliament is prorogued. I stayed with
Prior till eleven; the Secretary left us at eight. Prior, I believe,
will be one of those employed to make the peace, when a Congress is
opened. Lord Ashburnham told to-day at the Coffee-house that Lord
Harley(7) was yesterday morning married to the Duke of Newcastle's
daughter, the great heiress, and it got about all the town. But I saw
Lord Harley yesterday at noon in his nightgown, and he dined in the City
with Prior and others; so it is not true; but I hope it will be so; for
I know it has been privately managing this long time:(8) the lady will
not have half her father's estate; for the Duke left Lord Pelham's son
his heir.(9) The widow Duchess will not stand to the will, and she is
now at law with Pelham. However, at worst, the girl will have about ten
thousand pounds a year to support the honour; for Lord Treasurer will
never save a groat for himself. Lord Harley is a very valuable young
gentleman; and they say the girl is handsome, and has good sense, but
red hair.

9. I designed a jaunt into the City to-day to be merry, but was
disappointed; so one always is in this life; and I could not see Lord
Dartmouth to-day, with whom I had some business. Business and pleasure
both disappointed. You can go to your Dean, and for want of him, Goody
Stoyte, or Walls, or Manley, and meet everywhere with cards and claret.
I dined privately with a friend on a herring and chicken, and half a
flask of bad Florence. I begin to have fires now, when the mornings
are cold. I have got some loose bricks at the back of my grate for good
husbandry. Fine weather. Patrick tells me my caps are wearing out. I
know not how to get others. I want a necessary woman strangely. I am
as helpless as an elephant.--I had three packets from the Archbishop of
Dublin, cost me four shillings, all about Higgins,(10) printed stuff,
and two long letters. His people forgot to enclose them to Lewis;
and they were only directed to Doctor Swift, without naming London
or anything else. I wonder how they reached me, unless the postmaster
directed them. I have read all the trash, and am weary.

10. Why, if you must have it out, something is to be published of great
moment,(11) and three or four great people are to see there are no
mistakes in point of fact: and 'tis so troublesome to send it among
them, and get their corrections, that I am weary as a dog. I dined
to-day with the printer, and was there all the afternoon; and it plagues
me, and there's an end, and what would you have? Lady Dupplin, Lord
Treasurer's daughter,(12) is brought to bed of a son. Lord Treasurer
has had an ugly return of his gravel. 'Tis good for us to live in gravel
pits,(13) but not for gravel pits to live in us; a man in this case
should leave no stone unturned. Lord Treasurer's sickness, the Queen's
gout, the forwarding the peace, occasion putting off the Parliament a
fortnight longer. My head has had no ill returns. I had good walking
to-day in the City, and take all opportunities of it on purpose for my
health; but I can't walk in the Park, because that is only for walking's
sake, and loses time, so I mix it with business. I wish MD walked half
as much as Presto. If I was with you, I'd make you walk; I would walk
behind or before you, and you should have masks on, and be tucked up
like anything; and Stell