 and desired I
would send it you by the first convenience, as I will; and she promises
a quart bottle of the same: your sister looked very well, and seems a
good modest sort of girl. I went then to Mr. Lewis, first secretary to
Lord Dartmouth,(18) and favourite to Mr. Harley, who is to introduce
me to-morrow morning. Lewis had with him one Mr. Dyot,(19) a Justice of
Peace, worth twenty thousand pounds, a Commissioner of the Stamp Office,
and married to a sister of Sir Philip Meadows,(20) Envoy to the Emperor.
I tell you this, because it is odds but this Mr. Dyot will be hanged;
for he is discovered to have counterfeited stamped paper, in which he
was a Commissioner; and, with his accomplices, has cheated the Queen of
a hundred thousand pounds. You will hear of it before this come to you,
but may be not so particularly; and it is a very odd accident in such a
man. Smoke Presto writing news to MD. I dined to-day with Lord Mountjoy
at Kensington, and walked from thence this evening to town like an
emperor. Remember that yesterday, October 2, was a cruel hard frost,
with ice; and six days ago I was dying with heat. As thin as the town
is, I have more dinners than ever; and am asked this month by some
people, without being able to come for pre-engagements. Well, but
I should write plainer, when I consider Stella cannot read,(21) and
Dingley is not so skilful at my ugly hand. I had tonight a letter from
Mr. Pratt, who tells me Joe will have his money when there are trustees
appointed by the Lord Lieutenant for receiving and disposing the linen
fund; and whenever those trustees are appointed, I will solicit whoever
is Lord Lieutenant, and am in no fear of succeeding. So pray tell or
write him word, and bid him not be cast down; for Ned Southwell(22)
and Mr. Addison both think Pratt in the right. Don't lose your money at
Manley's to-night, sirrahs.

4. After I had put out my candle last night, my landlady came into my
room, with a servant of Lord Halifax, to desire I would go dine with him
at his house near Hampton Court; but I sent him word, I had business
of great importance that hindered me, etc. And to-day I was brought
privately to Mr. Harley, who received me with the greatest respect and
kindness imaginable: he has appointed me an hour on Saturday at four,
afternoon, when I will open my business to him; which expression I would
not use if I were a woman. I know you smoked it; but I did not till I
writ it. I dined to-day at Mr. Delaval's, the Envoy for Portugal, with
Nic Rowe(23) the poet, and other friends; and I gave my lampoon to be
printed. I have more mischief in my heart; and I think it shall go
round with them all, as this hits, and I can find hints. I am certain I
answered your 2d letter, and yet I do not find it here. I suppose it was
in my 4th: and why N. 2d, 3d; is it not enough to say, as I do, 1, 2, 3?
etc. I am going to work at another Tatler:(24) I'll be far enough but
I say the same thing over two or three times, just as I do when I am
talking to little MD; but what care I? they can read it as easily as I
can write it: I think I have brought these lines pretty straight again.
I fear it will be long before I finish two sides at this rate. Pray,
dear MD, when I occasionally give you any little commission mixed with
my letters, don't forget it, as that to Morgan and Joe, etc., for I
write just as I can remember, otherwise I would put them all together.
I was to visit Mr. Sterne to-day, and give him your commission about
handkerchiefs: that of chocolate I will do myself, and send it him when
he goes, and you'll pay me when the GIVER'S BREAD,(25) etc. To-night I
will read a pamphlet, to amuse myself. God preserve your dear healths!

5. This morning Delaval came to see me, and we went together to
Kneller's,(26) who was not in town. In the way we met the electors for
Parliament-men:(27) and the rabble came about our coach, crying, "A
Colt, a Stanhope," etc. We were afraid of a dead cat, or our glasses
broken, and so were always of their side. I dined again at Delaval's;
and in the evening, at the Coffee-house, heard Sir Andrew Fountaine(28)
was come to town. This has been but an insipid sort of day, and I have
nothing to remark upon it worth threepence: I hope MD had a better, with
the Dean, the Bishop, or Mrs. Walls.(29) Why, the reason you lost four
and eightpence last night but one at Manley's was, because you played
bad games: I took notice of six that you had ten to one against you:
Would any but a mad lady go out twice upon Manilio; Basto, and two small
diamonds?(30) Then in that game of spades, you blundered when you had
ten-ace; I never saw the like of you: and now you are in a huff because
I tell you this. Well, here's two and eightpence halfpenny towards your
loss.

6. Sir Andrew Fountaine came this morning, and caught me writing in bed.
I went into the city with him; and we dined at the Chop-house with
Will Pate,(31) the learned woollen-draper: then we sauntered at
China-shops(32) and booksellers; went to the tavern, drank two pints of
white wine, and never parted till ten: and now I am come home, and must
c