hts. MD can have no letter
from Presto, says you; and yet four days before you own you had my
thirty-seventh, unreasonable sluts! The Bishop of Gloucester is not
dead,(24) and I am as likely to succeed the Duke of Marlborough as him
if he were; there's enough for that now. It is not unlikely that the
Duke of Shrewsbury will be your Governor; at least I believe the Duke of
Ormond will not return.--Well, Stella again: why, really three editions
of the Conduct, etc., is very much for Ireland; it is a sign you have
some honest among you. Well; I will do Mr. Manley(25) all the service
I can; but he will ruin himself. What business had he to engage at all
about the City? Can't he wish his cause well, and be quiet, when he
finds that stirring will do it no good, and himself a great deal of
hurt? I cannot imagine who should open my letter: it must be done at
your side.--If I hear of any thoughts of turning out Mr. Manley, I will
endeavour to prevent it. I have already had all the gentlemen of Ireland
here upon my back often, for defending him. So now I have answered your
saucy letter. My humble service to Goody Stoyte and Catherine; I will
come soon for my dinner.

9. Morning. My cold goes off at last; but I think I have got a small new
one. I have no news since last. They say we hear by the way of Calais,
that peace is very near concluding. I hope it may be true. I'll go and
seal up my letter, and give it myself to-night into the post-office; and
so I bid my dearest MD farewell till to-night. I heartily wish myself
with them, as hope saved. My willows, and quicksets, and trees, will be
finely improved, I hope, this year. It has been fine hard frosty weather
yesterday and to-day. Farewell, etc. etc. etc.




LETTER 41.(1)

LONDON, Feb. 9, 1711-12.

When my letter is gone, and I have none of yours to answer, my
conscience is so clear, and my shoulder so light, and I go on with such
courage to prate upon nothing to deerichar MD, oo would wonder. I dined
with Sir Matthew Dudley, who is newly turned out of Commission of
the Customs. He affects a good heart, and talks in the extremity of
Whiggery, which was always his principle, though he was gentle a little,
while he kept in employment. We can yet get no packets from Holland. I
have not been with any of the Ministry these two or three days. I keep
out of their way on purpose, for a certain reason, for some time, though
I must dine with the Secretary to-morrow, the choosing of the company
being left to me. I have engaged Lord Anglesea(2) and Lord Carteret,(3)
and have promised to get three more; but I have a mind that none else
should be admitted: however, if I like anybody at Court to-morrow, I may
perhaps invite them. I have got another cold, but not very bad. Nite. ..
MD.

10. I saw Prince Eugene at Court to-day very plain; he's plaguy yellow,
and tolerably ugly besides. The Court was very full, and people had
their Birthday clothes. I dined with the Secretary to-day. I was to
invite five, but I only invited two, Lord Anglesea and Lord Carteret.
Pshaw, I told you this but yesterday. We have no packets from Holland
yet. Here are a parcel of drunken Whiggish lords, like your Lord
Santry,(4) who come into chocolate-houses and rail aloud at the Tories,
and have challenges sent them, and the next morning come and beg pardon.
General Ross(5) was like to swinge the Marquis of Winchester(6) for
this trick t'other day; and we have nothing else now to talk of till
the Parliament has had another bout with the state of the war, as they
intended in a few days. They have ordered the Barrier Treaty to be laid
before them; and it was talked some time ago, as if there was a design
to impeach Lord Townshend, who made it. I have no more politics now.
Nite dee MD.

11. I dined with Lord Anglesea to-day, who had seven Irishmen to be my
companions, of which two only were coxcombs; one I did not know, and
t'other was young Blith,(7) who is a puppy of figure here, with a fine
chariot. He asked me one day at Court, when I had been just talking
with some lords who stood near me, "Doctor, when shall we see you in
the county of Meath?" I whispered him to take care what he said, for
the people would think he was some barbarian. He never would speak to
me since, till we met to-day. I went to Lady Masham's to-night, and sat
with Lord Treasurer and the Secretary there till past two o'clock; and
when I came home, found some letters from Ireland, which I read, but
can say nothing of them till to-morrow, 'tis so very late; but I(8) must
always be...,(9) late or early. Nite deelest sollahs.(10)

12. One letter was from the Bishop of Clogher last night, and t'other
from Walls, about Mrs. South's(11) salary, and his own pension of 18
pounds for his tithe of the park. I will do nothing in either; the first
I cannot serve in, and the other is a trifle; only you may tell him I
had his letter, and will speak to Ned Southwell about what he desires
me. You say nothing of your Dean's receiving my letter. I find
Clements,(12) whom I recommended to Lord Anglesea last year, at
Walls's desire, or rather the Bishop of Clogher's, is m