ustice, wisdom, and
learning, they should not be taxed at all; because they are
qualifications of so singular a kind, that no man will either allow them
in his neighbour or value them in himself.

The women were proposed to be taxed according to their beauty and skill
in dressing, wherein they had the same privilege with the men, to be
determined by their own judgment.  But constancy, chastity, good sense,
and good nature, were not rated, because they would not bear the charge
of collecting.

To keep senators in the interest of the crown, it was proposed that the
members should raffle for employment; every man first taking an oath, and
giving security, that he would vote for the court, whether he won or not;
after which, the losers had, in their turn, the liberty of raffling upon
the next vacancy.  Thus, hope and expectation would be kept alive; none
would complain of broken promises, but impute their disappointments
wholly to fortune, whose shoulders are broader and stronger than those of
a ministry.

Another professor showed me a large paper of instructions for discovering
plots and conspiracies against the government.  He advised great
statesmen to examine into the diet of all suspected persons; their times
of eating; upon which side they lay in bed; with which hand they wipe
their posteriors; take a strict view of their excrements, and, from the
colour, the odour, the taste, the consistence, the crudeness or maturity
of digestion, form a judgment of their thoughts and designs; because men
are never so serious, thoughtful, and intent, as when they are at stool,
which he found by frequent experiment; for, in such conjunctures, when he
used, merely as a trial, to consider which was the best way of murdering
the king, his ordure would have a tincture of green; but quite different,
when he thought only of raising an insurrection, or burning the
metropolis.

The whole discourse was written with great acuteness, containing many
observations, both curious and useful for politicians; but, as I
conceived, not altogether complete.  This I ventured to tell the author,
and offered, if he pleased, to supply him with some additions.  He
received my proposition with more compliance than is usual among writers,
especially those of the projecting species, professing “he would be glad
to receive further information.”

I told him, “that in the kingdom of Tribnia, {454a} by the natives called
Langdon, {454b} where I had sojourned some time in my travels, the bulk
of the people consist in a manner wholly of discoverers, witnesses,
informers, accusers, prosecutors, evidences, swearers, together with
their several subservient and subaltern instruments, all under the
colours, the conduct, and the pay of ministers of state, and their
deputies.  The plots, in that kingdom, are usually the workmanship of
those persons who desire to raise their own characters of profound
politicians; to restore new vigour to a crazy administration; to stifle
or divert general discontents; to fill their coffers with forfeitures;
and raise, or sink the opinion of public credit, as either shall best
answer their private advantage.  It is first agreed and settled among
them, what suspected persons shall be accused of a plot; then, effectual
care is taken to secure all their letters and papers, and put the owners
in chains.  These papers are delivered to a set of artists, very
dexterous in finding out the mysterious meanings of words, syllables, and
letters: for instance, they can discover a close stool, to signify a
privy council; a flock of geese, a senate; a lame dog, an invader; the
plague, a standing army; a buzzard, a prime minister; the gout, a high
priest; a gibbet, a secretary of state; a chamber pot, a committee of
grandees; a sieve, a court lady; a broom, a revolution; a mouse-trap, an
employment; a bottomless pit, a treasury; a sink, a court; a cap and
bells, a favourite; a broken reed, a court of justice; an empty tun, a
general; a running sore, the administration. {455}

“When this method fails, they have two others more effectual, which the
learned among them call acrostics and anagrams.  First, they can decipher
all initial letters into political meanings.  Thus _N_, shall signify a
plot; _B_, a regiment of horse; _L_, a fleet at sea; or, secondly, by
transposing the letters of the alphabet in any suspected paper, they can
lay open the deepest designs of a discontented party.  So, for example,
if I should say, in a letter to a friend, ‘Our brother Tom has just got
the piles,’ a skilful decipherer would discover, that the same letters
which compose that sentence, may be analysed into the following words,
‘Resist ---, a plot is brought home—The tour.’  And this is the
anagrammatic method.”

The professor made me great acknowledgments for communicating these
observations, and promised to make honourable mention of me in his
treatise.

I saw nothing in this country that could invite me to a longer
continuance, and began to think of returning home to England.



CHAPTER VII.


The author leaves Lagado: arrives at Maldonada.  No ship ready.  He takes
a short vo