
extravagant enough to burn them by daylight. I never burn fewer at a
time than one. What would people have? The D---- burst Hawkshaw. He told
me he had not the box; and the next day Sterne told me he had sent it
a fortnight ago. Patrick could not find him t'other day, but he shall
to-morrow. Dear life and heart, do you tease me? does Stella tease
Presto? That palsy-water was in the box; it was too big for a packet,
and I was afraid of its breaking. Leigh was not in town then; or I would
not have trusted it to Sterne, whom yet I have befriended enough to do
me more kindness than that. I'll never rest till you have it, or till
it is in a way for you to have it. Poor dear rogue, naughty to think it
teases me; how could I ever forgive myself for neglecting anything that
related to your health? Sure I were a Devil if I did.

 ------------------------------------------------------

See how far I am forced to stand from Stella, because I am afraid she
thinks poor Presto has not been careful about her little things; I am
sure I bought them immediately according to order, and packed them up
with my own hands, and sent them to Sterne, and was six times with him
about sending them away. I am glad you are pleased with your glasses.
I have got another velvet cap; a new one Lord Herbert(16) bought and
presented me one morning I was at breakfast with him, where he was as
merry and easy as ever I saw him, yet had received a challenge half an
hour before, and half an hour after fought a duel. It was about ten days
ago. You are mistaken in your guesses about Tatlers: I did neither write
that on Noses nor Religion,(17) nor do I send him of late any hints at
all.--Indeed, Stella, when I read your letter, I was not uneasy at all;
but when I came to answer the particulars, and found that you had not
received your box, it grated me to the heart, because I thought, through
your little words, that you imagined I had not taken the care I ought.
But there has been some blunder in this matter, which I will know
to-morrow, and write to Sterne, for fear he should not be within.--And
pray, pray, Presto, pray now do.--No, Raymond was not above four times
with me while he stayed, and then only while I was dressing. Mrs. Fenton
has written me another letter about some money of hers in Lady Giffard's
hands, that is entrusted to me by my mother, not to come to her husband.
I send my letters constantly every fortnight, and, if you will have them
oftener, you may, but then they will be the shorter. Pray, let Parvisol
sell the horse. I think I spoke to you of it in a former letter: I am
glad you are rid of him, and was in pain while I thought you rode him;
but, if he would buy you another, or anybody else, and that you could be
often able to ride, why do not you do it?

2. I went this morning early to the Secretary of State, Mr. St. John;
and he told me from Mr. Harley that the warrant was now drawn, in order
for a patent for the First-Fruits: it must pass through several offices,
and take up some time, because in things the Queen gives they are always
considerate; but that, he assures me, 'tis granted and done, and past
all dispute, and desires I will not be in any pain at all. I will write
again to the Archbishop to-morrow, and tell him this, and I desire you
will say it on occasion. From the Secretary I went to Mr. Sterne,
who said he would write to you to-night; and that the box must be at
Chester; and that some friend of his goes very soon, and will carry it
over. I dined with Mr. Secretary St. John, and at six went to Darteneufs
house to drink punch with him, and Mr. Addison, and little Harrison,(18)
a young poet, whose fortune I am making. Steele was to have been there,
but came not, nor never did twice, since I knew him, to any appointment.
I stayed till past eleven, and am now in bed. Steele's last Tatler came
out to-day. You will see it before this comes to you, and how he takes
leave of the world. He never told so much as Mr. Addison of it, who was
surprised as much as I; but, to say the truth, it was time, for he grew
cruel dull and dry. To my knowledge he had several good hints to go
upon; but he was so lazy and weary of the work that he would not improve
them. I think I will send this after(19) to-morrow: shall I before 'tis
full, Dingley?

3. Lord Peterborow yesterday called me into a barber's shop, and there
we talked deep politics: he desired me to dine with him to-day at the
Globe in the Strand; he said he would show me so clearly how to get
Spain, that I could not possibly doubt it. I went to-day accordingly,
and saw him among half a dozen lawyers and attorneys and hang-dogs,
signing of deeds and stuff before his journey; for he goes to-morrow
to Vienna. I sat among that scurvy company till after four, but heard
nothing of Spain; only I find, by what he told me before, that he fears
he shall do no good in his present journey.(20) We are to be mighty
constant correspondents. So I took my leave of him, and called at Sir
Andrew Fountaine's, who mends much. I came home, an't please you, at
six, and have been studying till now past eleven.

4. Morn