 to the window, and then it ceased.
I went to bed again, and heard it repeated more violently; then I rose
and called up the house, and got a candle: the rogues had lifted up
the sash a yard; there are great sheds before my windows, although
my lodgings be a storey high; and if they get upon the sheds they are
almost even with my window. We observed their track, and panes of glass
fresh broken. The watchmen told us to-day they saw them, but could not
catch them. They attacked others in the neighbourhood about the same
time, and actually robbed a house in Suffolk Street, which is the
next street but one to us. It is said they are seamen discharged from
service. I went up to call my man, and found his bed empty; it seems he
often lies abroad. I challenged him this morning as one of the robbers.
He is a sad dog; and the minute I come to Ireland I will discard him. I
have this day got double iron bars to every window in my dining-room and
bed-chamber; and I hide my purse in my thread stocking between the bed's
head and the wainscot. Lewis and I dined with an old Scotch friend, who
brought the Duke of Douglas(17) and three or four more Scots upon us.

10. This was our Society day, you know; but the Duke of Ormond could
not be with us, because he dined with Prince Eugene. It cost me a guinea
contribution to a poet, who had made a copy of verses upon monkeys,
applying the story to the Duke of Marlborough; the rest gave two
guineas, except the two physicians,(18) who followed my example. I don't
like this custom: the next time I will give nothing. I sat this evening
at Lord Masham's with Lord Treasurer: I don't like his countenance; nor
I don't like the posture of things well.

     We cannot be stout,
     Till Somerset's out:

as the old saying is.

11. Mr. Lewis and I dined with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who eats
the most elegantly of any man I know in town. I walked lustily in the
Park by moonshine till eight, to shake off my dinner and wine; and then
went to sup at Mr. Domville's with Ford, and stayed till twelve. It is
told me to-day as a great secret that the Duke of Somerset will be out
soon, that the thing is fixed; but what shall we do with the Duchess?
They say the Duke will make her leave the Queen out of spite, if he be
out. It has stuck upon that fear a good while already. Well, but Lewis
gave me a letter from MD, N.25. O Lord, I did not expect one this
fortnight, faith. You are mighty good, that's certain: but I won't
answer it, because this goes to-morrow, only what you say of the
printer being taken up; I value it not; all's safe there; nor do I fear
anything, unless the Ministry be changed: I hope that danger is over.
However, I shall be in Ireland before such a change; which could not
be, I think, till the end of the session, if the Whigs' designs had
gone on.--Have not you an apron by Leigh, Madam Stella? have you all I
mentioned in a former letter?

12. Morning. This goes to-day as usual. I think of going into the City;
but of that at night. 'Tis fine moderate weather these two or three days
last. Farewell, etc. etc.




LETTER 39.

LONDON, Jan. 12,1711-12.

When I sealed up my letter this morning, I looked upon myself to be
not worth a groat in the world. Last night, after Mr. Ford and I left
Domville, Ford desired me to go with him for a minute upon earnest
business, and then told me that both he and I were ruined; for he had
trusted Stratford with five hundred pounds for tickets for the lottery,
and he had been with Stratford, who confessed he had lost fifteen
thousand pounds by Sir Stephen Evans,(1) who broke last week; that he
concluded Stratford must break too; that he could not get his tickets,
but Stratford made him several excuses, which seemed very blind ones,
etc. And Stratford had near four hundred pounds of mine, to buy me
five hundred pounds in the South Sea Company. I came home reflecting
a little; nothing concerned me but MD. I called all my philosophy and
religion up; and, I thank God, it did not keep me awake beyond my usual
time above a quarter of an hour. This morning I sent for Tooke, whom I
had employed to buy the stock of Stratford, and settle things with him.
He told me I was secure; for Stratford had transferred it to me in form
in the South Sea House, and he had accepted it for me, and all was done
on stamped parchment. However, he would be further informed; and at
night sent me a note to confirm me. However, I am not yet secure; and,
besides, am in pain for Ford, whom I first brought acquainted with
Stratford. I dined in the City.

13. Domville and I dined with Ford to-day by appointment: the Lord
Mansel told me at Court to-day that I was engaged to him; but Stratford
had promised Ford to meet him and me to-night at Ford's lodgings. He
did so; said he had hopes to save himself in his affair with Evans.
Ford asked him for his tickets: he said he would send them tomorrow; but
looking in his pocket-book, said he believed he had some of them about
him, and gave him as many as came to two hundred pounds, which rejoiced
us much; besides, he talked so frankly, that we might think there