ome exchequer business of 100 pounds to be Stella's;(3) another
for 100 pounds that she has of yours, which I made over to you for
Mariston; and a third for 300 pounds; the last is on stamped paper. I
think they had better lie in England in some good hand till Lady Giffard
dies; and I will think of some such hand before I come over. I was
asking Smithers about all the people of Farnham. Mrs. White(4) has left
off dressing, is troubled with lameness and swelled legs, and seldom
stirs out; but her old hang-dog husband as hearty as ever. I was this
morning with Lord Treasurer, about something he would have altered
in the pamphlet;(5) but it can't be till the fourth edition, which I
believe will be soon; for I dined with the printer, and he tells me they
have sold off half the third. Mrs. Perceval(6) and her daughter have
been in town these three weeks, which I never heard till to-day; and
Mrs. Wesley(7) is come to town too, to consult Dr. Radcliffe. The Whigs
are resolved to bring that pamphlet into the House of Lords to have it
condemned, so I hear. But the printer will stand to it, and not own the
author; he must say he had it from the penny-post. Some people talk as
if the House of Lords would do some peevish thing, for the Whigs are now
a great majority in it; our Ministers are too negligent of such things:
I have never slipped giving them warning; some of them are sensible of
it; but Lord Treasurer stands too much upon his own legs. I fancy his
good fortune will bear him out in everything; but in reason I should
think this Ministry to stand very unsteady; if they can carry a peace,
they may hold; I believe not else.

4. Mr. Secretary sent to me to-day to dine with him alone; but we had
two more with us, which hindered me doing some business. I was this
morning with young Harcourt, secretary to our Society, to take a room
for our weekly meetings; and the fellow asked us five guineas a week
only to have leave to dine once a week; was not that pretty? so we broke
off with him, and are to dine next Thursday at Harcourt's (he is Lord
Keeper's son). They have sold off above half the third edition,
and answers are coming out: the Dutch Envoy refused dining with Dr.
Davenant,(8) because he was suspected to write it: I have made some
alterations in every edition, and it has cost me more trouble, for the
time, since the printing, than before. 'Tis sent over to Ireland, and I
suppose you will have it reprinted.

5. They are now printing the fourth edition, which is reckoned very
extraordinary, considering 'tis a dear twelvepenny book, and not bought
up in numbers by the party to give away, as the Whigs do, but purely
upon its own strength. I have got an under spur-leather to write an
Examiner again,(9) and the Secretary and I will now and then send hints;
but we would have it a little upon the Grub Street, to be a match for
their writers. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day at five: he dined
by himself after his family, and drinks no claret yet, for fear of his
rheumatism, of which he is almost well. He was very pleasant, as he is
always: yet I fancied he was a little touched with the present posture
of affairs. The Elector of Hanover's Minister here has given in a
violent memorial against the peace, and caused it to be printed. The
Whig lords are doing their utmost for a majority against Friday, and
design, if they can, to address the Queen against the peace. Lord
Nottingham,(10) a famous Tory and speech-maker, is gone over to the Whig
side: they toast him daily, and Lord Wharton says, It is Dismal (so they
call him from his looks) will save England at last. Lord Treasurer was
hinting as if he wished a ballad was made on him, and I will get up
one against to-morrow.(11) He gave me a scurrilous printed paper of bad
verses on himself, under the name of the English Catiline, and made me
read them to the company. It was his birthday, which he would not tell
us, but Lord Harley whispered it to me.

6. I was this morning making the ballad, two degrees above Grub Street:
at noon I paid a visit to Mrs. Masham, and then went to dine with our
Society. Poor Lord Keeper dined below stairs, I suppose, on a bit of
mutton. We chose two members: we were eleven met, the greatest meeting
we ever had: I am next week to introduce Lord Orrery. The printer came
before we parted, and brought the ballad, which made them laugh very
heartily a dozen times. He is going to print the pamphlet(12) in small,
a fifth edition, to be taken off by friends, and sent into the country.
A sixpenny answer is come out, good for nothing, but guessing me, among
others, for the author. To-morrow is the fatal day for the Parliament
meeting, and we are full of hopes and fears. We reckon we have a
majority of ten on our side in the House of Lords; yet I observed Mrs.
Masham a little uneasy: she assures me the Queen is stout. The Duke of
Marlborough has not seen the Queen for some days past; Mrs. Masham is
glad of it, because she says he tells a hundred lies to his friends of
what she says to him: he is one day humble, and the next day on the high
ropes. The Duke of Ormond, they s