alks still about, and is pleased to call itself Partridge, Mr.
Bickerstaff does not think himself any way answerable for that. Neither
had the said carcase any right to beat the poor boy who happen'd to pass
by it in the street, crying, "A full and true account of Dr. Partridge's
death, etc."

Secondly, Mr. Partridge pretends to tell fortunes, and recover stolen
goods; which all the parish says he must do by conversing with the
devil and other evil spirits: And no wise man will ever allow he could
converse personally with either, till after he was dead.

Thirdly, I will plainly prove him to be dead out of his own almanack for
this year, and from the very passage which he produces to make us think
him alive. He there says, "He is not only now alive, but was also alive
on the very 29th of March, which I foretold he should die on": By this,
he declares his opinion, that a man may be alive now, who was not
alive a twelvemonth ago. And indeed, there lies the sophistry of this
argument. He dares not assert, he was alive ever since that 29th of
March, but that he is now alive, and was so on that day: I grant the
latter; for he did not die till night, as appears by the printed account
of his death, in a letter to a lord; and whether he is since revived
I leave the world to judge. This indeed is perfect cavilling, and I am
ashamed to dwell any longer upon it.

Fourthly, I will appeal to Mr. Partridge himself, whether it be probable
I could have been so indiscreet, to begin my predictions with the only
falsehood that ever was pretended to be in them; and this in an affair
at home, where I had so many opportunities to be exact; and must have
given such advantages against me to a person of Mr. Partridge's wit and
learning, who, if he could possibly have raised one single objection
more against the truth of my prophecies, would hardly have spared me.

And here I must take occasion to reprove the above mention'd writer of
the relation of Mr. Partridge's death, in a letter to a lord; who was
pleased to tax me with a mistake of four whole hours in my calculation
of that event. I must confess, this censure pronounced with an air
of certainty, in a matter that so nearly concerned me, and by a grave
judicious author, moved me not a little. But tho' I was at that time out
of town, yet several of my friends, whose curiosity had led them to be
exactly informed (for as to my own part, having no doubt at all in the
matter, I never once thought of it) assured me, I computed to something
under half an hour: which (I speak my private opinion) is an error of no
very great magnitude, that men should raise a clamour about it. I shall
only say, it would not be amiss, if that author would henceforth be more
tender of other men's reputations as well as his own. It is well there
were no more mistakes of that kind; if there had, I presume he would
have told me of them with as little ceremony.

There is one objection against Mr. Partridge's death, which I have
sometimes met with, though indeed very slightly offered, That he still
continues to write almanacks. But this is no more than what is common
to all that profession; Gadbury, Poor Robin, Dove, Wing, and several
others, do yearly publish their almanacks, though several of them have
been dead since before the Revolution. Now the natural reason of this
I take to be, that whereas it is the privilege of other authors to live
after their deaths; almanack-makers are alone excluded, because their
dissertations treating only upon the minutes as they pass, become
useless as those go off. In consideration of which, Time, whose
registers they are, gives them a lease in reversion, to continue their
works after their death.

I should not have given the publick or myself the trouble of this
vindication, if my name had not been made use of by several persons,
to whom I never lent it; one of which, a few days ago, was pleased to
father on me a new sett of predictions. But I think those are things too
serious to be trifled with. It grieved me to the heart, when I saw my
labours, which had cost me so much thought and watching, bawl'd about by
common hawkers, which I only intended for the weighty consideration of
the gravest persons. This prejudiced the world so much at first, that
several of my friends had the assurance to ask me whether I were in
jest? To which I only answered coldly, that the event would shew. But
it is the talent of our age and nation, to turn things of the greatest
importance into ridicule. When the end of the year had verified all my
predictions, out comes Mr. Partridge's almanack, disputing the point
of his death; so that I am employed, like the general who was forced to
kill his enemies twice over, whom a necromancer had raised to life. If
Mr. Partridge has practised the same experiment upon himself, and
be again alive, long may he continue so; that does not in the least
contradict my veracity: But I think I have clearly proved, by invincible
demonstration, that he died at farthest within half an hour of the time
I foretold, and not four hours sooner, as the above-mentioned author, in
his letter to a