Wharton, Earl and afterwards Marquis of Wharton, had been
one of Swift's fellow-travellers from Dublin. Lord Lieutenant of Ireland
under the Whig Government, from 1708 to 1710, Wharton was the most
thorough-going party man that had yet appeared in English politics; and
his political enemies did not fail to make the most of his well-known
immorality. In his Notes to Macky's Characters Swift described Wharton
as "the most universal villain that ever I knew." On his death in 1715
he was succeeded by his profligate son, Philip, who was created Duke of
Wharton in 1718.

20. This money was a premium the Government had promised Beaumont for
his Mathematical Sleying Tables, calculated for the improvement of the
linen manufacture.

21. The bellman was both town-crier and night-watchman.

Letter 3.

1. Dr. William Cockburn (1669-1739), Swift's physician, of a good
Scottish family, was educated at Leyden. He invented an electuary for
the cure of fluxes, and in 1730, in The Danger of Improving Physick,
satirised the academical physicians who envied him the fortune he had
made by his secret remedy. He was described in 1729 as "an old very rich
quack."

2. Sir Matthew Dudley, Bart., an old Whig friend, was M.P. for
Huntingdonshire, and Commissioner of the Customs from 1706 to 1712, and
again under George I., until his death in 1721.

3. Isaac Manley, who was appointed Postmaster-General in Ireland in 1703
(Luttrell, v. 333). He had previously been Comptroller of the English
Letter Office, a post in which he was succeeded by William Frankland,
son of Sir Thomas Frankland. Dunton calls Manley "loyal and acute."

4. Sir Thomas Frankland was joint Postmaster-General from 1691 to 1715.
He succeeded to the baronetcy on the death of his father, Sir William
Frankland, in 1697, and he died in 1726. Macky describes Sir Thomas as
"of a sweet and easy disposition, zealous for the Constitution, yet not
forward, and indulgent to his dependants." On this Swift comments, "This
is a fair character."

5. Theophilus Butler, elected M.P. for Cavan, in the Irish Parliament,
in 1703, and for Belturbet (as "the Right Hon. Theophilus Butler") in
1713. On May 3, 1710, Luttrell wrote (Brief Relation of State Affairs,
vi. 577), "'Tis said the Earl of Montrath, Lord Viscount Mountjoy... and
Mr. Butler will be made Privy Councillors of the Kingdom of Ireland."
Butler--a contemporary of Swift's at Trinity College, Dublin--was
created Baron of Newtown-Butler in 1715, and his brother, who succeeded
him in 1723, was made Viscount Lanesborough. Butler's wife was Emilia,
eldest daughter and co-heir of James Stopford, of Tara, County Meath.

6. No. 193 of the Tatler, for July 4, 1710, contained a letter from
Downes the Prompter--not by Steele himself--in ridicule of Harley and
his proposed Ministry.

7. Charles Robartes, second Earl of Radnor, who died in 1723. In the
Journal for Dec. 30, 1711, Swift calls him "a scoundrel."

8. Benjamin Tooke, Swift's bookseller or publisher, lived at the Middle
Temple Gate. Dunton wrote of him, "He is truly honest, a man of refined
sense, and is unblemished in his reputation." Tooke died in 1723.

9. Swift's servant, of whose misdeeds he makes frequent complaints in
the Journal.

10. Deputy Vice-Treasurer of Ireland. In one place Swift calls him
Captain Pratt; and in all probability he is the John Pratt who, as we
learn from Dalton's English Army Lists, was appointed captain in General
Erle's regiment of foot in 1699, and was out of the regiment by 1706. In
1702 he obtained the Queen's leave to be absent from the regiment when
it was sent to the West Indies. Pratt seems to have been introduced to
Swift by Addison.

11. Charles Ford, of Wood Park, near Dublin, was a great lover of the
opera and a friend of the Tory wits. He was appointed Gazetteer in 1712.
Gay calls him "joyous Ford," and he was given to over-indulgence in
conviviality. See Swift's poem on Stella at Wood Park.

12. Lord Somers, to whom Swift had dedicated The Tale of a Tub, with
high praise of his public and private virtues. In later years Swift said
that Somers "possessed all excellent qualifications except virtue."

13. At the foundation school of the Ormonds at Kilkenny. (see note 22.)

14. A Whig haberdasher.

15. Benjamin Hoadley, the Whig divine, had been engaged in controversy
with Sacheverell, Blackall, and Atterbury. After the accession of George
I. he became Bishop of Bangor, Hereford, Salisbury, and Winchester in
success.

16. Dr. Henry Sacheverell, whose impeachment and trial had led to the
fall of the Whig Government.

17. Sir Berkeley Lucy, Bart., F.R.S., married Katherine, daughter of
Charles Cotton, of Beresford, Staffordshire, Isaac Walton's friend. Lady
Lucy died in 1740, leaving an only surviving daughter, Mary, who married
the youngest son of the Earl of Northampton, and had two sons, who
became successively seventh and eighth Earls of Northampton. Forster and
others assumed that "Lady Lucy" was a Lady Lucy Stanhope, though they
were not able to identify her. It was reserved for Mr. Ryland to clear
up this difficulty. As he points out, Lady Lucy's elder