time another appeared, it
should be taken ashore, and with all its crew and passengers brought in a
tumbril to Lorbrulgrud.  He was strongly bent to get me a woman of my own
size, by whom I might propagate the breed: but I think I should rather
have died than undergone the disgrace of leaving a posterity to be kept
in cages, like tame canary-birds, and perhaps, in time, sold about the
kingdom, to persons of quality, for curiosities.  I was indeed treated
with much kindness: I was the favourite of a great king and queen, and
the delight of the whole court; but it was upon such a foot as ill became
the dignity of humankind.  I could never forget those domestic pledges I
had left behind me.  I wanted to be among people, with whom I could
converse upon even terms, and walk about the streets and fields without
being afraid of being trod to death like a frog or a young puppy.  But my
deliverance came sooner than I expected, and in a manner not very common;
the whole story and circumstances of which I shall faithfully relate.

I had now been two years in this country; and about the beginning of the
third, Glumdalclitch and I attended the king and queen, in a progress to
the south coast of the kingdom.  I was carried, as usual, in my
travelling-box, which as I have already described, was a very convenient
closet, of twelve feet wide.  And I had ordered a hammock to be fixed, by
silken ropes from the four corners at the top, to break the jolts, when a
servant carried me before him on horseback, as I sometimes desired; and
would often sleep in my hammock, while we were upon the road.  On the
roof of my closet, not directly over the middle of the hammock, I ordered
the joiner to cut out a hole of a foot square, to give me air in hot
weather, as I slept; which hole I shut at pleasure with a board that drew
backward and forward through a groove.

When we came to our journey’s end, the king thought proper to pass a few
days at a palace he has near Flanflasnic, a city within eighteen English
miles of the seaside.  Glumdalclitch and I were much fatigued: I had
gotten a small cold, but the poor girl was so ill as to be confined to
her chamber.  I longed to see the ocean, which must be the only scene of
my escape, if ever it should happen.  I pretended to be worse than I
really was, and desired leave to take the fresh air of the sea, with a
page, whom I was very fond of, and who had sometimes been trusted with
me.  I shall never forget with what unwillingness Glumdalclitch
consented, nor the strict charge she gave the page to be careful of me,
bursting at the same time into a flood of tears, as if she had some
forboding of what was to happen.  The boy took me out in my box, about
half an hours walk from the palace, towards the rocks on the sea-shore.
I ordered him to set me down, and lifting up one of my sashes, cast many
a wistful melancholy look towards the sea.  I found myself not very well,
and told the page that I had a mind to take a nap in my hammock, which I
hoped would do me good.  I got in, and the boy shut the window close
down, to keep out the cold.  I soon fell asleep, and all I can conjecture
is, while I slept, the page, thinking no danger could happen, went among
the rocks to look for birds’ eggs, having before observed him from my
window searching about, and picking up one or two in the clefts.  Be that
as it will, I found myself suddenly awaked with a violent pull upon the
ring, which was fastened at the top of my box for the conveniency of
carriage.  I felt my box raised very high in the air, and then borne
forward with prodigious speed.  The first jolt had like to have shaken me
out of my hammock, but afterward the motion was easy enough.  I called
out several times, as loud as I could raise my voice, but all to no
purpose.  I looked towards my windows, and could see nothing but the
clouds and sky.  I heard a noise just over my head, like the clapping of
wings, and then began to perceive the woful condition I was in; that some
eagle had got the ring of my box in his beak, with an intent to let it
fall on a rock, like a tortoise in a shell, and then pick out my body,
and devour it: for the sagacity and smell of this bird enables him to
discover his quarry at a great distance, though better concealed than I
could be within a two-inch board.

In a little time, I observed the noise and flutter of wings to increase
very fast, and my box was tossed up and down, like a sign in a windy day.
I heard several bangs or buffets, as I thought given to the eagle (for
such I am certain it must have been that held the ring of my box in his
beak), and then, all on a sudden, felt myself falling perpendicularly
down, for above a minute, but with such incredible swiftness, that I
almost lost my breath.  My fall was stopped by a terrible squash, that
sounded louder to my ears than the cataract of Niagara; after which, I
was quite in the dark for another minute, and then my box began to rise
so high, that I could see light from the tops of the windows.  I now
perceived I was fallen into the sea.  My box, by the weight of my body,
the goods that w