m I under obligations in the least to any of them all?
Rot 'em, for ungrateful dogs; I will make them repent their usage before
I leave this place. They say here the same thing of my leaving the
Whigs; but they own they cannot blame me, considering the treatment I
have had. I will take care of your spectacles, as I told you before,
and of the Bishop of Killala's; but I will not write to him, I have not
time. What do you mean by my fourth, Madam Dinglibus? Does not Stella
say you have had my fifth, Goody Blunder? You frighted me till I looked
back. Well, this is enough for one night. Pray give my humble service to
Mrs. Stoyte and her sister, Kate is it, or Sarah?(35) I have forgot her
name, faith. I think I will even (and to Mrs. Walls and the Archdeacon)
send this to-morrow: no, faith, that will be in ten days from the last.
I will keep it till Saturday, though I write no more. But what if a
letter from MD should come in the meantime? Why then I would only say,
"Madam, I have received your sixth letter; your most humble servant to
command, Presto"; and so conclude. Well, now I will write and think a
little, and so to bed, and dream of MD.

9. I have my mouth full of water, and was going to spit it out, because
I reasoned with myself, how could I write when my mouth was full? Han't
you done things like that, reasoned wrong at first thinking? Well, I was
to see Mr. Lewis this morning, and am to dine a few days hence, as he
tells me, with Mr. Secretary St. John; and I must contrive to see Harley
soon again, to hasten this business from the Queen. I dined to-day at
Lord Mountrath's,(36) with Lord Mountjoy,(37) etc.; but the wine was not
good, so I came away, stayed at the Coffee-house till seven, then came
home to my fire, the maidenhead of my second half-bushel, and am now
in bed at eleven, as usual. 'Tis mighty warm; yet I fear I should catch
cold this wet weather, if I sat an evening in my room after coming from
warm places: and I must make much of myself, because MD is not here to
take care of Presto; and I am full of business, writing, etc., and do
not care for the Coffee-house; and so this serves for all together, not
to tell it you over and over, as silly people do; but Presto is a wiser
man, faith, than so, let me tell you, gentlewomen. See, I am got to
the third side; but, faith, I will not do that often; but I must say
something early to-day, till the letter is done, and on Saturday it
shall go; so I must leave something till to-morrow, till to-morrow and
next day.

10. O Lord, I would this letter was with you with all my heart! If it
should miscarry, what a deal would be lost! I forgot to leave a gap
in the last line but one for the seal, like a puppy; but I should have
allowed for night, goodnight; but when I am taking leave, I cannot leave
a bit, faith; but I fancy the seal will not come there. I dined to-day
at Lady Lucy's, where they ran down my "Shower"; and said, "Sid Hamet"
was the silliest poem they ever read; and told Prior so, whom they
thought to be author of it. Don't you wonder I never dined there before?
But I am too busy, and they live too far off; and, besides, I do not
like women so much as I did. (MD, you must know, are not women.) I
supped to-night at Addison's, with Garth, Steele, and Mr. Dopping; and
am come home late. Lewis has sent to me to desire I will dine with
some company I shall like. I suppose it is Mr. Secretary St. John's
appointment. I had a letter just now from Raymond, who is at Bristol,
and says he will be at London in a fortnight, and leave his wife behind
him; and desires any lodging in the house where I am: but that must not
be. I shall not know what to do with him in town: to be sure, I will
not present him to any acquaintance of mine; and he will live a delicate
life, a parson and a perfect stranger! Paaast twelvvve o'clock,(38) and
so good-night, etc. Oh! but I forgot, Jemmy Leigh is come to town;
says he has brought Dingley's things, and will send them with the first
convenience. My parcel, I hear, is not sent yet. He thinks of going for
Ireland in a month, etc. I cannot write tomorrow, because--what, because
of the Archbishop; because I will seal my letter early; because I am
engaged from noon till night; because of many kind of things; and yet
I will write one or two words to-morrow morning, to keep up my journal
constant, and at night I will begin my ninth.

11. Morning by candlelight. You must know that I am in my nightgown
every morning between six and seven, and Patrick is forced to ply me
fifty times before I can get on my nightgown; and so now I will take my
leave of my own dear MD for this letter, and begin my next when I come
home at night. God Almighty bless and protect dearest MD. Farewell, etc.

This letter's as long as a sermon, faith.




LETTER 9.

LONDON, Nov. 11, 1710.

I dined to-day, by invitation, with the Secretary of State, Mr. St.
John. Mr. Harley came in to us before dinner, and made me his excuses
for not dining with us, because he was to receive people who came to
propose advancing money to the Government: there dined with us only
Mr. Lewis, and Dr.