a Papist, an
illiterate pretender to science; that would blast my reputation,
most inhumanly bury me alive, and defraud my native country of those
services, that, in my double capacity, I daily offer to the publick.

What great provocations I have receiv'd, let the impartial reader judge,
and how unwillingly, even in my own defence, I now enter the lists
against falsehood, ignorance and envy: But I am exasperated, at length,
to drag out this cacus from the den of obscurity where he lurks, detect
him by the light of those stars he has so impudently traduced, and
shew there's not a monster in the skies so pernicious and malevolent to
mankind, as an ignorant pretender to physick and astrology. I shall
not directly fall on the many gross errors, nor expose the notorious
absurdities of this prostituted libeller, till I have let the learned
world fairly into the controversy depending, and then leave the
unprejudiced to judge of the merits and justice of the cause.

It was towards the conclusion of the year 1707, when an impudent
pamphlet crept into the world, intituled, 'Predictions, etc.' by Isaac
Bickerstaff, Esq;--Amongst the many arrogant assertions laid down by
that lying spirit of divination, he was pleas'd to pitch on the Cardinal
de Noailles and myself, among many other eminent and illustrious
persons, that were to die within the compass of the ensuing year; and
peremptorily fixes the month, day, and hour of our deaths: This, I
think, is sporting with great men, and publick spirits, to the scandal
of religion, and reproach of power; and if sovereign princes and
astrologers must make diversion for the vulgar---- why then farewel, say
I, to all governments, ecclesiastical and civil. But, I thank my better
stars, I am alive to confront this false and audacious predictor, and to
make him rue the hour he ever affronted a man of science and resentment.
The Cardinal may take what measures he pleases with him; as his
excellency is a foreigner, and a papist, he has no reason to rely on me
for his justification; I shall only assure the world he is alive---- but
as he was bred to letters, and is master of a pen, let him use it in
his own defence. In the mean time I shall present the publick with a
faithful narrative of the ungenerous treatment and hard usage I have
received from the virulent papers and malicious practices of this
pretended astrologer.

A true and impartial account of the proceedings of Isaac Bickerstaff,
Esq; against me----

The 28th of March, Anno Dom. 1708, being the night this sham-prophet had
so impudently fix'd for my last, which made little impression on myself;
but I cannot answer for my whole family; for my wife, with a concern
more than usual, prevailed on me to take somewhat to sweat for a cold;
and, between the hours of eight and nine, to go to bed: The maid, as she
was warming my bed, with a curiosity natural to young wenches, runs to
the window, and asks of one passing the street, who the bell toll'd for?
Dr. Partridge, says he, that famous almanack-maker, who died suddenly
this evening: The poor girl provoked, told him he ly'd like a rascal;
the other very sedately reply'd, the sexton had so informed him, and if
false, he was to blame for imposing upon a stranger. She asked a second,
and a third, as they passed, and every one was in the same tone. Now I
don't say these are accomplices to a certain astrological 'squire, and
that one Bickerstaff might be sauntring thereabouts; because I will
assert nothing here but what I dare attest, and plain matter of fact. My
wife at this fell into a violent disorder; and I must own I was a little
discomposed at the oddness of the accident. In the mean time one knocks
at my door, Betty runs down, and opening, finds a sober grave person,
who modestly enquires if this was Dr. Partridge's? She taking him for
some cautious city-patient, that came at that time for privacy, shews
him into the dining room. As soon as I could compose myself, I went to
him, and was surprized to find my gentleman mounted on a table with a
two-foot rule in his hand, measuring my walls, and taking the dimensions
of the room. Pray sir, says I, not to interrupt you, have you any
business with me? Only, sir, replies he, order the girl to bring me a
better light, for this is but a very dim one. Sir, says I, my name is
Partridge: Oh! the Doctor's brother, belike, cries he; the stair-case,
I believe, and these two apartments hung in close mourning, will be
sufficient, and only a strip of bays round the other rooms. The Doctor
must needs die rich, he had great dealings in his way for many years;
if he had no family coat, you had as good use the escutcheons of the
company, they are as showish, and will look as magnificent as if he
was descended from the blood royal. With that I assumed a great air of
authority, and demanded who employ'd him, or how he came there? Why,
I was sent, sir, by the Company of Undertakers, says he, and they were
employed by the honest gentleman, who is executor to the good Doctor
departed; and our rascally porter, I believe, is fallen fast asleep with
the black cloth and sconces