r a
necessity of steering westward to get into the trade wind, which holds
for above sixty leagues.  On the 21st of April, 1708, we sailed into the
river of Clumegnig, which is a seaport town, at the south-east point of
Luggnagg.  We cast anchor within a league of the town, and made a signal
for a pilot.  Two of them came on board in less than half an hour, by
whom we were guided between certain shoals and rocks, which are very
dangerous in the passage, to a large basin, where a fleet may ride in
safety within a cable’s length of the town-wall.

Some of our sailors, whether out of treachery or inadvertence, had
informed the pilots “that I was a stranger, and great traveller;” whereof
these gave notice to a custom-house officer, by whom I was examined very
strictly upon my landing.  This officer spoke to me in the language of
Balnibarbi, which, by the force of much commerce, is generally understood
in that town, especially by seamen and those employed in the customs.  I
gave him a short account of some particulars, and made my story as
plausible and consistent as I could; but I thought it necessary to
disguise my country, and call myself a Hollander; because my intentions
were for Japan, and I knew the Dutch were the only Europeans permitted to
enter into that kingdom.  I therefore told the officer, “that having been
shipwrecked on the coast of Balnibarbi, and cast on a rock, I was
received up into Laputa, or the flying island (of which he had often
heard), and was now endeavouring to get to Japan, whence I might find a
convenience of returning to my own country.”  The officer said, “I must
be confined till he could receive orders from court, for which he would
write immediately, and hoped to receive an answer in a fortnight.”  I was
carried to a convenient lodging with a sentry placed at the door;
however, I had the liberty of a large garden, and was treated with
humanity enough, being maintained all the time at the king’s charge.  I
was invited by several persons, chiefly out of curiosity, because it was
reported that I came from countries very remote, of which they had never
heard.

I hired a young man, who came in the same ship, to be an interpreter; he
was a native of Luggnagg, but had lived some years at Maldonada, and was
a perfect master of both languages.  By his assistance, I was able to
hold a conversation with those who came to visit me; but this consisted
only of their questions, and my answers.

The despatch came from court about the time we expected.  It contained a
warrant for conducting me and my retinue to _Traldragdubh_, or
_Trildrogdrib_ (for it is pronounced both ways as near as I can
remember), by a party of ten horse.  All my retinue was that poor lad for
an interpreter, whom I persuaded into my service, and, at my humble
request, we had each of us a mule to ride on.  A messenger was despatched
half a day’s journey before us, to give the king notice of my approach,
and to desire, “that his majesty would please to appoint a day and hour,
when it would by his gracious pleasure that I might have the honour to
lick the dust before his footstool.”  This is the court style, and I
found it to be more than matter of form: for, upon my admittance two days
after my arrival, I was commanded to crawl upon my belly, and lick the
floor as I advanced; but, on account of my being a stranger, care was
taken to have it made so clean, that the dust was not offensive.
However, this was a peculiar grace, not allowed to any but persons of the
highest rank, when they desire an admittance.  Nay, sometimes the floor
is strewed with dust on purpose, when the person to be admitted happens
to have powerful enemies at court; and I have seen a great lord with his
mouth so crammed, that when he had crept to the proper distance from the
throne; he was not able to speak a word.  Neither is there any remedy;
because it is capital for those, who receive an audience to spit or wipe
their mouths in his majesty’s presence.  There is indeed another custom,
which I cannot altogether approve of: when the king has a mind to put any
of his nobles to death in a gentle indulgent manner, he commands the
floor to be strewed with a certain brown powder of a deadly composition,
which being licked up, infallibly kills him in twenty-four hours.  But in
justice to this prince’s great clemency, and the care he has of his
subjects’ lives (wherein it were much to be wished that the Monarchs of
Europe would imitate him), it must be mentioned for his honour, that
strict orders are given to have the infected parts of the floor well
washed after every such execution, which, if his domestics neglect, they
are in danger of incurring his royal displeasure.  I myself heard him
give directions, that one of his pages should be whipped, whose turn it
was to give notice about washing the floor after an execution, but
maliciously had omitted it; by which neglect a young lord of great hopes,
coming to an audience, was unfortunately poisoned, although the king at
that time had no design against his life.  But this good prince was so
gracious as to forgive the poor page hi