 my turn, give me something to make me easy; and I
have good interest among his best friends. But I don't think of anything
further than the business I am upon. You see I writ to Manley before
I had your letter, and I fear he will be out. Yes, Mrs. Owl, Bligh's
corpse(22) came to Chester when I was there; and I told you so in my
letter, or forgot it. I lodge in Bury Street, where I removed a week
ago. I have the first floor, a dining-room, and bed-chamber, at eight
shillings a week; plaguy deep, but I spend nothing for eating, never
go to a tavern, and very seldom in a coach; yet after all it will
be expensive. Why do you trouble yourself, Mistress Stella, about my
instrument? I have the same the Archbishop gave me; and it is as good
now the bishops are away. The Dean friendly! the Dean be poxed: a
great piece of friendship indeed, what you heard him tell the Bishop of
Clogher; I wonder he had the face to talk so: but he lent me money, and
that's enough. Faith, I would not send this these four days, only for
writing to Joe and Parvisol. Tell the Dean that when the bishops send me
any packets, they must not write to me at Mr. Steele's; but direct
for Mr. Steele, at his office at the Cockpit, and let the enclosed be
directed for me: that mistake cost me eighteenpence the other day.

30. I dined with Stratford to-day, but am not to see Mr. Harley till
Wednesday: it is late, and I send this before there is occasion for the
bell; because I would have Joe have his letter, and Parvisol too; which
you must so contrive as not to cost them double postage. I can say no
more, but that I am, etc.




LETTER 5.

LONDON, Sept. 30, 1710.

Han't I brought myself into a fine praemunire,(1) to begin writing
letters in whole sheets? and now I dare not leave it off. I cannot tell
whether you like these journal letters: I believe they would be dull
to me to read them over; but, perhaps, little MD is pleased to know how
Presto passes his time in her absence. I always begin my last the same
day I ended my former. I told you where I dined to-day at a tavern with
Stratford: Lewis,(2) who is a great favourite of Harley's, was to have
been with us; but he was hurried to Hampton Court, and sent his excuse;
and that next Wednesday he would introduce me to Harley. 'Tis good to
see what a lamentable confession the Whigs all make me of my ill
usage: but I mind them not. I am already represented to Harley as a
discontented person, that was used ill for not being Whig enough; and
I hope for good usage from him. The Tories drily tell me, I may make
my fortune, if I please; but I do not understand them--or rather, I do
understand them.

Oct. 1. To-day I dined at Molesworth's, the Florence Envoy; and sat this
evening with my friend Darteneuf,(3) whom you have heard me talk of;
the greatest punner of this town next myself. Have you smoked the Tatler
that I writ?(4) It is much liked here, and I think it a pure(5) one.
To-morrow I go with Delaval,(6) the Portugal Envoy, to dine with Lord
Halifax near Hampton Court.(7) Your Manley's brother, a Parliament-man
here, has gotten an employment;(8) and I am informed uses much interest
to preserve his brother: and, to-day, I spoke to the elder Frankland
to engage his father (Postmaster here); and I hope he will be safe,
although he is cruelly hated by all the Tories of Ireland. I have almost
finished my lampoon, and will print it for revenge on a certain great
person.(9) It has cost me but three shillings in meat and drink since I
came here, as thin as the town is. I laugh to see myself so disengaged
in these revolutions. Well, I must leave off, and go write to Sir John
Stanley,(10) to desire him to engage Lady Hyde as my mistress to engage
Lord Hyde(11) in favour of Mr. Pratt.(12)

2. Lord Halifax was at Hampton Court at his lodgings, and I dined
with him there with Methuen,(13) and Delaval, and the late
Attorney-General.(14) I went to the Drawing-room before dinner (for
the Queen was at Hampton Court), and expected to see nobody; but I
met acquaintance enough. I walked in the gardens, saw the cartoons
of Raphael, and other things; and with great difficulty got from Lord
Halifax, who would have kept me to-morrow to show me his house and park,
and improvements. We left Hampton Court at sunset, and got here in a
chariot and two horses time enough by starlight. That's something charms
me mightily about London; that you go dine a dozen miles off in October,
stay all day, and return so quickly: you cannot do anything like this in
Dublin.(15) I writ a second penny post letter to your mother, and hear
nothing of her. Did I tell you that Earl Berkeley died last Sunday was
se'nnight, at Berkeley Castle, of a dropsy? Lord Halifax began a health
to me to-day; it was the Resurrection of the Whigs, which I refused
unless he would add their Reformation too and I told him he was the only
Whig in England I loved, or had any good opinion of.

3. This morning Stella's sister(16) came to me with a letter from her
mother, who is at Sheen; but will soon be in town, and will call to see
me: she gave me a bottle of palsy water,(17) a small one,