majesty’s
ship-carpenters, who helped me in smoothing them, after I had done the
rough work.

In about a month, when all was prepared, I sent to receive his majesty’s
commands, and to take my leave.  The emperor and royal family came out of
the palace; I lay down on my face to kiss his hand, which he very
graciously gave me: so did the empress and young princes of the blood.
His majesty presented me with fifty purses of two hundred _sprugs_
a-piece, together with his picture at full length, which I put
immediately into one of my gloves, to keep it from being hurt.  The
ceremonies at my departure were too many to trouble the reader with at
this time.

I stored the boat with the carcases of a hundred oxen, and three hundred
sheep, with bread and drink proportionable, and as much meat ready
dressed as four hundred cooks could provide.  I took with me six cows and
two bulls alive, with as many ewes and rams, intending to carry them into
my own country, and propagate the breed.  And to feed them on board, I
had a good bundle of hay, and a bag of corn.  I would gladly have taken a
dozen of the natives, but this was a thing the emperor would by no means
permit; and, besides a diligent search into my pockets, his majesty
engaged my honour “not to carry away any of his subjects, although with
their own consent and desire.”

Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able, I set sail on the
twenty-fourth day of September 1701, at six in the morning; and when I
had gone about four-leagues to the northward, the wind being at
south-east, at six in the evening I descried a small island, about half a
league to the north-west.  I advanced forward, and cast anchor on the
lee-side of the island, which seemed to be uninhabited.  I then took some
refreshment, and went to my rest.  I slept well, and as I conjectured at
least six hours, for I found the day broke in two hours after I awaked.
It was a clear night.  I ate my breakfast before the sun was up; and
heaving anchor, the wind being favourable, I steered the same course that
I had done the day before, wherein I was directed by my pocket compass.
My intention was to reach, if possible, one of those islands which I had
reason to believe lay to the north-east of Van Diemen’s Land.  I
discovered nothing all that day; but upon the next, about three in the
afternoon, when I had by my computation made twenty-four leagues from
Blefuscu, I descried a sail steering to the south-east; my course was due
east.  I hailed her, but could get no answer; yet I found I gained upon
her, for the wind slackened.  I made all the sail I could, and in half an
hour she spied me, then hung out her ancient, and discharged a gun.  It
is not easy to express the joy I was in, upon the unexpected hope of once
more seeing my beloved country, and the dear pledges I left in it.  The
ship slackened her sails, and I came up with her between five and six in
the evening, September 26th; but my heart leaped within me to see her
English colours.  I put my cows and sheep into my coat-pockets, and got
on board with all my little cargo of provisions.  The vessel was an
English merchantman, returning from Japan by the North and South seas;
the captain, Mr. John Biddel, of Deptford, a very civil man, and an
excellent sailor.

We were now in the latitude of 30 degrees south; there were about fifty
men in the ship; and here I met an old comrade of mine, one Peter
Williams, who gave me a good character to the captain.  This gentleman
treated me with kindness, and desired I would let him know what place I
came from last, and whither I was bound; which I did in a few words, but
he thought I was raving, and that the dangers I underwent had disturbed
my head; whereupon I took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket,
which, after great astonishment, clearly convinced him of my veracity.  I
then showed him the gold given me by the emperor of Blefuscu, together
with his majesty’s picture at full length, and some other rarities of
that country.  I gave him two purses of two hundreds _sprugs_ each, and
promised, when we arrived in England, to make him a present of a cow and
a sheep big with young.

I shall not trouble the reader with a particular account of this voyage,
which was very prosperous for the most part.  We arrived in the Downs on
the 13th of April, 1702.  I had only one misfortune, that the rats on
board carried away one of my sheep; I found her bones in a hole, picked
clean from the flesh.  The rest of my cattle I got safe ashore, and set
them a-grazing in a bowling-green at Greenwich, where the fineness of the
grass made them feed very heartily, though I had always feared the
contrary: neither could I possibly have preserved them in so long a
voyage, if the captain had not allowed me some of his best biscuit,
which, rubbed to powder, and mingled with water, was their constant food.
The short time I continued in England, I made a considerable profit by
showing my cattle to many persons of quality and others: and before I
began my second voyage, I sold them for six hundred pounds.  Since my
last return I find the breed is cons