ulars, and those of no very great moment. I exactly foretold the
miscarriage at Toulon, with all its particulars; and the loss of Admiral
Shovel, tho' I was mistaken as to the day, placing that accident about
thirty-six hours sooner than it happen'd; but upon reviewing my schemes,
I quickly found the cause of that error. I likewise foretold the Battle
of Almanza to the very day and hour, with the loss on both sides, and
the consequences thereof. All which I shewed to some friends many months
before they happened, that is, I gave them papers sealed up, to open at
such a time, after which they were at liberty to read them; and there
they found my predictions true in every article, except one or two, very
minute.

As for the few following predictions I now offer the world, I forbore
to publish them till I had perused the several almanacks for the year we
are now enter'd on. I find them in all the usual strain, and I beg the
reader will compare their manner with mine: And here I make bold to tell
the world, that I lay the whole credit of my art upon the truth of these
predictions; and I will be content, that Partridge, and the rest of his
clan, may hoot me for a cheat and impostor, if I fail in any singular
particular of moment. I believe, any man who reads this paper, will look
upon me to be at least a person of as much honesty and understanding, as
a common maker of almanacks. I do not lurk in the dark; I am not wholly
unknown in the world; I have set my name at length, to be a mark of
infamy to mankind, if they shall find I deceive them.

In one thing I must desire to be forgiven, that I talk more sparingly of
home-affairs: As it will be imprudence to discover secrets of state, so
it would be dangerous to my person; but in smaller matters, and that are
not of publick consequence, I shall be very free; and the truth of my
conjectures will as much appear from those as the other. As for the most
signal events abroad in France, Flanders, Italy and Spain, I shall
make no scruple to predict them in plain terms: Some of them are of
importance, and I hope I shall seldom mistake the day they will happen;
therefore, I think good to inform the reader, that I all along make use
of the Old Style observed in England, which I desire he will compare
with that of the news-papers, at the time they relate the actions I
mention.

I must add one word more: I know it hath been the opinion of several of
the learned, who think well enough of the true art of astrology, That
the stars do only incline, and not force the actions or wills of men:
And therefore, however I may proceed by right rules, yet I cannot in
prudence so confidently assure the events will follow exactly as I
predict them.

I hope I have maturely considered this objection, which in some cases
is of no little weight. For example: A man may, by the influence of an
over-ruling planet, be disposed or inclined to lust, rage, or avarice,
and yet by the force of reason overcome that bad influence; and this
was the case of Socrates: But as the great events of the world usually
depend upon numbers of men, it cannot be expected they should all unite
to cross their inclinations, from pursuing a general design, wherein
they unanimously agree. Besides the influence of the stars reaches to
many actions and events which are not any way in the power of reason;
as sickness, death, and what we commonly call accidents, with many more,
needless to repeat.

But now it is time to proceed to my predictions, which I have begun to
calculate from the time that the Sun enters into Aries. And this I take
to be properly the beginning of the natural year. I pursue them to the
time that he enters Libra, or somewhat more, which is the busy period of
the year. The remainder I have not yet adjusted, upon account of several
impediments needless here to mention: Besides, I must remind the reader
again, that this is but a specimen of what I design in succeeding years
to treat more at large, if I may have liberty and encouragement.

My first prediction is but a trifle, yet I will mention it, to show
how ignorant those sottish pretenders to astrology are in their own
concerns: It relates to Partridge the almanack-maker; I have consulted
the stars of his nativity by my own rules, and find he will infallibly
die upon the 29th of March next, about eleven at night, of a raging
fever; therefore I advise him to consider of it, and settle his affairs
in time.

The month of April will be observable for the death of many great
persons. On the 4th will die the Cardinal de Noailles, Archbishop of
Paris: On the 11th the young Prince of Asturias, son to the Duke
of Anjou: On the 14th a great peer of this realm will die at his
country-house: On the 19th an old layman of great fame for learning:
and on the 23rd an eminent goldsmith in Lombard-Street. I could mention
others, both at home and abroad, if I did not consider it is of very
little use or instruction to the reader, or to the world.

As to publick affairs: On the 7th of this month there will be an
insurrection in Dauphine, occasion'd by the oppressions of the people,
which will 