 away your time; but, faith,
you are going to Wexford, and I fear this letter is too late; it shall
go on Thursday, and sooner it cannot, I have so much business to hinder
me answering yours. Where must I direct in your absence? Do you quit
your lodgings?

21. Going to town this morning, I met in the Pall Mall a clergyman
of Ireland, whom I love very well and was glad to see, and with him
a little jackanapes, of Ireland too, who married Nanny Swift, Uncle
Adam's(19) daughter, one Perry; perhaps you may have heard of him. His
wife has sent him here, to get a place from Lowndes;(20) because my
uncle and Lowndes married two sisters, and Lowndes is a great man here
in the Treasury; but by good luck I have no acquaintance with him:
however, he expected I should be his friend to Lowndes, and one word
of mine, etc., the old cant. But I will not go two yards to help him.
I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, where I keep my best gown and periwig, to
put on when I come to town and be a spark.

22. I dined to-day in the City, and coming home this evening, I met Sir
Thomas Mansel and Mr. Lewis in the Park. Lewis whispered me that Mr.
Harley's patent for the Earl of Oxford was passed in Mr. Secretary St.
John's office; so to-morrow or next day, I suppose, he will be
declared Earl of Oxford, and have the staff.(21) This man has grown by
persecutions, turnings out, and stabbing. What waiting, and crowding,
and bowing will be at his levee! yet, if human nature be capable of so
much constancy, I should believe he will be the same man still, bating
the necessary forms of grandeur he must keep up. 'Tis late, sirrahs, and
I'll go sleep.

23. Morning. I sat up late last night, and waked late to-day; but will
now answer your letter in bed before I go to town, and I will send it
to-morrow; for perhaps you mayn't go so soon to Wexford.--No, you are
not out in your number; the last was Number 14, and so I told you
twice or thrice; will you never be satisfied? What shall we do for poor
Stella? Go to Wexford, for God's sake: I wish you were to walk there by
three miles a day, with a good lodging at every mile's end. Walking
has done me so much good, that I cannot but prescribe it often to poor
Stella. Parvisol has sent me a bill for fifty pounds, which I am sorry
for, having not written to him for it, only mentioned it two months ago;
but I hope he will be able to pay you what I have drawn upon him for: he
never sent me any sum before, but one bill of twenty pounds half a year
ago. You are welcome as my blood to every farthing I have in the world;
and all that grieves me is, I am not richer, for MD's sake, as hope
saved.(22) I suppose you give up your lodgings when you go to Wexford;
yet that will be inconvenient too: yet I wish again you were under a
necessity of rambling the country until Michaelmas, faith. No, let them
keep the shelves, with a pox; yet they are exacting people about those
four weeks; or Mrs. Brent may have the shelves, if she please. I am
obliged to your Dean for his kind offer of lending me money. Will that
be enough to say? A hundred people would lend me money, or to any man
who has not the reputation of a squanderer. O, faith, I should be glad
to be in the same kingdom with MD, however, although you are at Wexford.
But I am kept here by a most capricious fate, which I would break
through, if I could do it with decency or honour.--To return without
some mark of distinction would look extremely little; and I would
likewise gladly be somewhat richer than I am. I will say no more, but
beg you to be easy till Fortune take her course, and to believe that
MD's felicity is the great end I aim at in all my pursuits. And so let
us talk no more on this subject, which makes me melancholy, and that
I would fain divert. Believe me, no man breathing at present has less
share of happiness in life than I: I do not say I am unhappy at all, but
that everything here is tasteless to me for want of being as I would
be. And so, a short sigh, and no more of this. Well, come and let's see
what's next, young women. Pox take Mrs. Edgworth and Sterne! I will take
some methods about that box. What orders would you have me give about
the picture? Can't you do with it as if it were your own? No, I hope
Manley will keep his place; for I hear nothing of Sir Thomas Frankland's
losing his. Send nothing under cover to Mr. Addison, but "To Erasmus
Lewis, Esq.; at my Lord Dartmouth's office at Whitehall." Direct your
outside so.--Poor dear Stella, don't write in the dark, nor in the light
neither, but dictate to Dingley; she is a naughty, healthy girl, and may
drudge for both. Are you good company together? and don't you quarrel
too often? Pray love one another, and kiss one another just now, as
Dingley is reading this; for you quarrelled this morning just after Mrs.
Marget(23) had poured water on Stella's head: I heard the little bird
say so. Well, I have answered everything in your letter that required
it, and yet the second side is not full. I'll come home at night, and
say more; and to-morrow this goes for certain. Go, get you gone to your
own chambers, and let Presto 