retary at his office, and there was
Lord Treasurer: so I killed two birds, etc., and we were glad to see
one another, and so forth. And the Secretary and I dined at Sir William
Wyndham's,(1) who married Lady Catharine Seymour, your acquaintance, I
suppose. There were ten of us at dinner. It seems, in my absence, they
had erected a Club,(2) and made me one; and we made some laws to-day,
which I am to digest and add to, against next meeting. Our meetings
are to be every Thursday. We are yet but twelve: Lord Keeper and
Lord Treasurer were proposed; but I was against them, and so was Mr.
Secretary, though their sons are of it, and so they are excluded; but
we design to admit the Duke of Shrewsbury. The end of our Club is, to
advance conversation and friendship, and to reward deserving persons
with our interest and recommendation. We take in none but men of wit or
men of interest; and if we go on as we begin, no other Club in this town
will be worth talking of. The Solicitor-General, Sir Robert Raymond,
is one of our Club; and I ordered him immediately to write to your Lord
Chancellor in favour of Dr. Raymond: so tell Raymond, if you see him;
but I believe this will find you at Wexford. This letter will come three
weeks after the last, so there is a week lost; but that is owing to my
being out of town; yet I think it is right, because it goes enclosed to
Mr. Reading:(3) and why should he know how often Presto writes to MD,
pray?--I sat this evening with Lady Betty Butler and Lady Ashburnham,
and then came home by eleven, and had a good cool walk; for we have
had no extreme hot weather this fortnight, but a great deal of rain at
times, and a body can live and breathe. I hope it will hold so. We had
peaches to-day.

22. I went late to-day to town, and dined with my friend Lewis. I saw
Will Congreve attending at the Treasury, by order, with his brethren,
the Commissioners of the Wine Licences. I had often mentioned him with
kindness to Lord Treasurer; and Congreve told me that, after they had
answered to what they were sent for, my lord called him privately, and
spoke to him with great kindness, promising his protection, etc. The
poor man said he had been used so ill of late years that he was quite
astonished at my lord's goodness, etc., and desired me to tell my lord
so; which I did this evening, and recommended him heartily. My lord
assured me he esteemed him very much, and would be always kind to him;
that what he said was to make Congreve easy, because he knew people
talked as if his lordship designed to turn everybody out, and
particularly Congreve: which indeed was true, for the poor man told me
he apprehended it. As I left my Lord Treasurer, I called on Congreve
(knowing where he dined), and told him what had passed between my lord
and me; so I have made a worthy man easy, and that is a good day's
work.(4) I am proposing to my lord to erect a society or academy for
correcting and settling our language, that we may not perpetually be
changing as we do. He enters mightily into it, so does the Dean of
Carlisle;(5) and I design to write a letter to Lord Treasurer with
the proposals of it, and publish it;(6) and so I told my lord, and he
approves it. Yesterday's(7) was a sad Examiner, and last week was very
indifferent, though some little scraps of the old spirit, as if he had
given some hints; but yesterday's is all trash. It is plain the hand is
changed.

23. I have not been in London to-day: for Dr. Gastrell(8) and I dined,
by invitation, with the Dean of Carlisle, my neighbour; so I know not
what they are doing in the world, a mere country gentleman. And are not
you ashamed both to go into the country just when I did, and stay ten
days, just as I did, saucy monkeys? But I never rode; I had no horses,
and our coach was out of order, and we went and came in a hired one. Do
you keep your lodgings when you go to Wexford? I suppose you do; for you
will hardly stay above two months. I have been walking about our town
to-night, and it is a very scurvy place for walking. I am thinking to
leave it, and return to town, now the Irish folks are gone. Ford goes
in three days. How does Dingley divert herself while Stella is riding?
work, or read, or walk? Does Dingley ever read to you? Had you ever a
book with you in the country? Is all that left off? Confess. Well, I'll
go sleep; 'tis past eleven, and I go early to sleep: I write nothing at
night but to MD.

24. Stratford and I, and Pastoral Philips (just come from Denmark) dined
at Ford's to-day, who paid his way, and goes for Ireland on Tuesday. The
Earl of Peterborow is returned from Vienna without one servant: he left
them scattered in several towns of Germany. I had a letter from him,
four days ago, from Hanover, where he desires I would immediately send
him an answer to his house at Parson's Green,(9) about five miles off. I
wondered what he meant, till I heard he was come. He sent expresses,
and got here before them. He is above fifty, and as active as one of
five-and-twenty. I have not seen him yet, nor know when I shall, or
where to find him.

25. Poor Duke of Shrewsbury has been 