nty of eggs upon the rocks, and got a quantity of dry
sea-weed, and parched grass, which I designed to kindle the next day, and
roast my eggs as well as I could, for I had about me my flint, steel,
match, and burning-glass.  I lay all night in the cave where I had lodged
my provisions.  My bed was the same dry grass and sea-weed which I
intended for fuel.  I slept very little, for the disquiets of my mind
prevailed over my weariness, and kept me awake.  I considered how
impossible it was to preserve my life in so desolate a place, and how
miserable my end must be: yet found myself so listless and desponding,
that I had not the heart to rise; and before I could get spirits enough
to creep out of my cave, the day was far advanced.  I walked awhile among
the rocks: the sky was perfectly clear, and the sun so hot, that I was
forced to turn my face from it: when all on a sudden it became obscure,
as I thought, in a manner very different from what happens by the
interposition of a cloud.  I turned back, and perceived a vast opaque
body between me and the sun moving forwards towards the island: it seemed
to be about two miles high, and hid the sun six or seven minutes; but I
did not observe the air to be much colder, or the sky more darkened, than
if I had stood under the shade of a mountain.  As it approached nearer
over the place where I was, it appeared to be a firm substance, the
bottom flat, smooth, and shining very bright, from the reflection of the
sea below.  I stood upon a height about two hundred yards from the shore,
and saw this vast body descending almost to a parallel with me, at less
than an English mile distance.  I took out my pocket perspective, and
could plainly discover numbers of people moving up and down the sides of
it, which appeared to be sloping; but what those people where doing I was
not able to distinguish.

The natural love of life gave me some inward motion of joy, and I was
ready to entertain a hope that this adventure might, some way or other,
help to deliver me from the desolate place and condition I was in.  But
at the same time the reader can hardly conceive my astonishment, to
behold an island in the air, inhabited by men, who were able (as it
should seem) to raise or sink, or put it into progressive motion, as they
pleased.  But not being at that time in a disposition to philosophise
upon this phenomenon, I rather chose to observe what course the island
would take, because it seemed for awhile to stand still.  Yet soon after,
it advanced nearer, and I could see the sides of it encompassed with
several gradations of galleries, and stairs, at certain intervals, to
descend from one to the other.  In the lowest gallery, I beheld some
people fishing with long angling rods, and others looking on.  I waved my
cap (for my hat was long since worn out) and my handkerchief toward the
island; and upon its nearer approach, I called and shouted with the
utmost strength of my voice; and then looking circumspectly, I beheld a
crowd gather to that side which was most in my view.  I found by their
pointing towards me and to each other, that they plainly discovered me,
although they made no return to my shouting.  But I could see four or
five men running in great haste, up the stairs, to the top of the island,
who then disappeared.  I happened rightly to conjecture, that these were
sent for orders to some person in authority upon this occasion.

The number of people increased, and, in less than half all hour, the
island was moved and raised in such a manner, that the lowest gallery
appeared in a parallel of less then a hundred yards distance from the
height where I stood.  I then put myself in the most supplicating
posture, and spoke in the humblest accent, but received no answer.  Those
who stood nearest over against me, seemed to be persons of distinction,
as I supposed by their habit.  They conferred earnestly with each other,
looking often upon me.  At length one of them called out in a clear,
polite, smooth dialect, not unlike in sound to the Italian: and therefore
I returned an answer in that language, hoping at least that the cadence
might be more agreeable to his ears.  Although neither of us understood
the other, yet my meaning was easily known, for the people saw the
distress I was in.

They made signs for me to come down from the rock, and go towards the
shore, which I accordingly did; and the flying island being raised to a
convenient height, the verge directly over me, a chain was let down from
the lowest gallery, with a seat fastened to the bottom, to which I fixed
myself, and was drawn up by pulleys.



CHAPTER II.


The humours and dispositions of the Laputians described.  An account of
their learning.  Of the king and his court.  The author’s reception
there.  The inhabitants subject to fear and disquietudes.  An account of
the women.

At my alighting, I was surrounded with a crowd of people, but those who
stood nearest seemed to be of better quality.  They beheld me with all
the marks and circumstances of wonder; neither indeed was I much in their
debt, having never till then seen a race of mort