 me know, and I will
direct Parvisol accordingly: however, he shall wait on you and know. So,
ladies, enough of business for one night. Paaaaast twelvvve o'clock. I
must only add, that, after a long fit of rainy weather, it has been fair
two or three days, and is this day grown cold and frosty; so that you
must give poor little Presto leave to have a fire in his chamber morning
and evening too; and he will do as much for you.

14. What, has your Chancellor(10) lost his senses, like Will Crowe?(11)
I forgot to tell Dingley that I was yesterday at Ludgate, bespeaking the
spectacles at the great shop there, and shall have them in a day or two.
This has been an insipid day. I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and came
gravely home, after just visiting the Coffee-house. Sir Richard Cox,(12)
they say, is sure of going over Lord Chancellor, who is as arrant a
puppy as ever ate bread: but the Duke of Ormond has a natural affection
to puppies; which is a thousand pities, being none himself. I have been
amusing myself at home till now, and in bed bid you good-night.

15. I have been visiting this morning, but nobody was at home, Secretary
St. John, Sir Thomas Hanmer,(13) Sir Chancellor Cox-comb, etc. I
attended the Duke of Ormond with about fifty other Irish gentlemen at
Skinners' Hall, where the Londonderry Society laid out three hundred
pounds to treat us and his Grace with a dinner. Three great tables
with the dessert laid in mighty figure. Sir Richard Levinge and I got
discreetly to the head of the second table, to avoid the crowd at the
first: but it was so cold, and so confounded a noise with the trumpets
and hautboys, that I grew weary, and stole away before the second course
came on; so I can give you no account of it, which is a thousand pities.
I called at Ludgate for Dingley's glasses, and shall have them in a day
or two; and I doubt it will cost me thirty shillings for a microscope,
but not without Stella's permission; for I remember she is a virtuoso.
Shall I buy it or no? 'Tis not the great bulky ones, nor the common
little ones, to impale a louse (saving your presence) upon a needle's
point; but of a more exact sort, and clearer to the sight, with all its
equipage in a little trunk that you may carry in your pocket. Tell me,
sirrah, shall I buy it or not for you? I came home straight, etc.

16. I dined to-day in the city with Mr. Manley,(14) who invited Mr.
Addison and me, and some other friends, to his lodging, and entertained
us very handsomely. I returned with Mr. Addison, and loitered till nine
in the Coffee-house, where I am hardly known, by going so seldom. I am
here soliciting for Trounce; you know him: he was gunner in the former
yacht, and would fain be so in the present one if you remember him,
a good, lusty, fresh-coloured fellow. Shall I stay till I get another
letter from MD before I close up this? Mr. Addison and I meet a little
seldomer than formerly, although we are still at bottom as good friends
as ever, but differ a little about party.

17. To-day I went to Lewis at the Secretary's office; where I saw and
spoke to Mr. Harley, who promised, in a few days, to finish the rest of
my business. I reproached him for putting me on the necessity of minding
him of it, and rallied him, etc., which he took very well. I dined
to-day with one Mr. Gore, elder brother to a young merchant of my
acquaintance; and Stratford and my other friend merchants dined with us,
where I stayed late, drinking claret and burgundy; and am just got to
bed, and will say no more, but that it now begins to be time to have a
letter from my own little MD; for the last I had above a fortnight ago,
and the date was old too.

18. To-day I dined with Lewis and Prior at an eating-house, but
with Lewis's wine. Lewis went away, and Prior and I sat on, where we
complimented one another for an hour or two upon our mutual wit and
poetry. Coming home at seven, a gentleman unknown stopped me in the Pall
Mall, and asked my advice; said he had been to see the Queen (who was
just come to town), and the people in waiting would not let him see her;
that he had two hundred thousand men ready to serve her in the war; that
he knew the Queen perfectly well, and had an apartment at Court, and
if she heard he was there, she would send for him immediately; that she
owed him two hundred thousand pounds, etc., and he desired my opinion,
whether he should go try again whether he could see her; or because,
perhaps, she was weary after her journey, whether he had not better stay
till to-morrow. I had a mind to get rid of my companion, and begged
him of all love to go and wait on her immediately; for that, to my
knowledge, the Queen would admit him; that this was an affair of great
importance, and required despatch: and I instructed him to let me know
the success of his business, and come to the Smyrna Coffee-house, where
I would wait for him till midnight; and so ended this adventure. I would
have fain given the man half a crown; but was afraid to offer it him,
lest he should be offended; for, beside his money, he said he had a
thousand pounds a year. I came home not early;