uppose I shall put it off to the other world." Soon
afterwards an opening for Swift presented itself. Sir William Temple,
now living in retirement at Moor Park, near Farnham, had been, like his
father, Master of the Irish Rolls, and had thus become acquainted with
Swift's uncle Godwin. Moreover, Lady Temple was related to Mrs. Swift,
as Lord Orrery tells us. Thanks to these facts, the application to
Sir William Temple was successful, and Swift went to live at Moor Park
before the end of 1689. There he read to Temple, wrote for him, and kept
his accounts, and growing into confidence with his employer, "was
often trusted with matters of great importance." The story--afterwards
improved upon by Lord Macaulay--that Swift received only 20 pounds
and his board, and was not allowed to sit at table with his master, is
wholly untrustworthy. Within three years of their first intercourse,
Temple had introduced his secretary to William the Third, and sent
him to London to urge the King to consent to a bill for triennial
Parliaments.

When Swift took up his residence at Moor Park he found there a little
girl of eight, daughter of a merchant named Edward Johnson, who had died
young. Swift says that Esther Johnson was born on March 18, 1681; in
the parish register of Richmond,(1) which shows that she was baptized on
March 20, 1680-81, her name is given as Hester; but she signed her
will "Esther," the name by which she was always known. Swift says, "Her
father was a younger brother of a good family in Nottinghamshire, her
mother of a lower degree; and indeed she had little to boast in her
birth." Mrs. Johnson had two children, Esther and Ann, and lived at
Moor Park as companion to Lady Giffard, Temple's widowed sister. Another
member of the household, afterwards to be Esther's constant companion,
was Rebecca Dingley, a relative of the Temple family.(2) She was a year
or two older than Swift.

The lonely young man of twenty-two was both playfellow and teacher
of the delicate child of eight. How he taught her to write has been
charmingly brought before us in the painting exhibited by Miss Dicksee
at the Royal Academy a few years ago; he advised her what books to read,
and instructed her, as he says, "in the principles of honour and virtue,
from which she never swerved in any one action or moment of her life."

By 1694 Swift had grown tired of his position, and finding that Temple,
who valued his services, was slow in finding him preferment, he left
Moor Park in order to carry out his resolve to go into the Church. He
was ordained, and obtained the prebend of Kilroot, near Belfast, where
he carried on a flirtation with a Miss Waring, whom he called Varina.
But in May 1696 Temple made proposals which induced Swift to return
to Moor Park, where he was employed in preparing Temple's memoirs and
correspondence for publication, and in supporting the side taken by
Temple in the Letters of Phalaris controversy by writing The Battle of
the Books, which was, however, not published until 1704. On his return
to Temple's house, Swift found his old playmate grown from a sickly
child into a girl of fifteen, in perfect health. She came, he says, to
be "looked upon as one of the most beautiful, graceful, and agreeable
young women in London, only a little too fat. Her hair was blacker than
a raven, and every feature of her face in perfection."

On his death in January 1699, Temple left a will,(3) dated 1694,
directing the payment of 20 pounds each, with half a year's wages, to
Bridget Johnson "and all my other servants"; and leaving a lease of some
land in Monistown, County Wicklow, to Esther Johnson, "servant to my
sister Giffard." By a codicil of February 1698, Temple left 100 pounds
to "Mr. Jonathan Swift, now living with me." It may be added that by her
will of 1722, proved in the following year, Lady Giffard gave 20 pounds
to Mrs. Moss--Mrs. Bridget Johnson, who had married Richard Mose or
Moss, Lady Giffard's steward. The will proceeds: "To Mrs. Hester (sic)
Johnson I give 10 pounds, with the 100 pounds I put into the Exchequer
for her life and my own, and declare the 100 pounds to be hers which I
am told is there in my name upon the survivorship, and for which she has
constantly sent over her certificate and received the interest. I give
her besides my two little silver candlesticks."

Temple left in Swift's hands the task of publishing his posthumous
works, a duty which afterwards led to a quarrel with Lady Giffard and
other members of the family. Many years later Swift told Lord Palmerston
that he stopped at Moor Park solely for the benefit of Temple's
conversation and advice, and the opportunity of pursuing his studies. At
Temple's death he was "as far to seek as ever." In the summer of 1699,
however, he was offered and accepted the post of secretary and chaplain
to the Earl of Berkeley, one of the Lords Justices, but when he reached
Ireland he found that the secretaryship had been given to another. He
soon, however, obtained the living of Laracor, Agher, and Rathbeggan,
and the prebend of Dunlavin in St. Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin. The
total value 