s desire; but the business is again put off till Monday. I
dined with Sir John Stanley, by an assignation I had made with Mr. St.
John, and George Granville, the Secretary at War; but they let in other
company, some ladies, and so we were not so easy as I intended. My head
is pretty tolerable, but every day I feel some little disorders; I have
left off snuff since Sunday, finding myself much worse after taking
a good deal at the Secretary's. I would not let him drink one drop of
champagne or burgundy without water, and in compliment I did so myself.
He is much better; but when he is well, he is like Stella, and will not
be governed. So go to your Stoyte's, and I'll go sleep.

10. I have been visiting Lady Worsley and Mrs. Barton today, and dined
soberly with my friend Lewis. The Dauphin is dead of an apoplexy; I wish
he had lived till the finishing of this letter, that it might be news
to you. Duncombe,(5) the rich alderman, died to-day, and I hear has left
the Duke of Argyle, who married his niece, two hundred thousand pounds;
I hope it is true, for I love that Duke mightily. I writ this evening to
the Archbishop of Dublin, about what I told you; and then went to take
leave of poor Mrs. St. John, who gave me strict charge to take care of
the Secretary in her absence; said she had none to trust but me; and the
poor creature's tears came fresh in her eyes. Before we took leave, I
was drawn in by the other ladies and Sir John Stanley to raffle for
a fan, with a pox; it was four guineas, and we put in seven shillings
apiece, several raffling for absent people; but I lost, and so missed an
opportunity of showing my gallantry to Mrs. St. John, whom I designed
to have presented it to if I had won. Is Dilly(6) gone to the Bath? His
face will whizz in the water; I suppose he will write to us from thence,
and will take London in his way back.--The rabble will say, "There goes
a drunken parson"; and, which is worse, they will say true. Oh, but you
must know I carried Ford to dine with Mr. St. John last Sunday, that he
may brag, when he goes back, of dining with a Secretary of State. The
Secretary and I went away early, and left him drinking with the rest,
and he told me that two or three of them were drunk. They talk of great
promotions to be made; that Mr. Harley is to be Lord Treasurer, and Lord
Poulett(7) Master of the Horse, etc., but they are only conjecture. The
Speaker is to make Mr. Harley a compliment the first time he comes into
the House, which I hope will be in a week. He has had an ill surgeon,
by the caprice of that puppy Dr. Radcliffe, which has kept him back so
long; and yesterday he got a cold, but is better to-day.--What! I think
I am stark mad, to write so much in one day to little saucy MD; here
is a deal of stuff, indeed! can't you bid those little dear rogues
good-night, and let them go sleep, Mr. Presto? When your tongue runs
there's no ho with you, pray.

11. Again at the lobby (like a lobcock)(8) of the House of Commons,
about your Irish yarn, and again put off till Friday; and I and Patrick
went into the City by water, where I dined, and then I went to the
auction of Charles Barnard's books; but the good ones were so monstrous
dear, I could not reach them, so I laid out one pound seven shillings
but very indifferently, and came away, and will go there no more. Henley
would fain engage me to go with Steele and Rowe, etc., to an invitation
at Sir William Read's.(9) Surely you have heard of him. He has been a
mountebank, and is the Queen's oculist; he makes admirable punch, and
treats you in gold vessels. But I am engaged, and will not go, neither
indeed am I fond of the jaunt. So good-night, and go sleep.

12. I went about noon to the Secretary, who is very ill with a cold, and
sometimes of the gravel, with his champagne, etc. I scolded him like a
dog, and he promises faithfully more care for the future. To-day my Lord
Anglesea, and Sir Thomas Hammer, and Prior, and I dined, by appointment,
with Lieutenant-General Webb.(10) My lord and I stayed till ten o'clock;
but we drank soberly, and I always with water. There was with us one Mr.
Campain,(11) one of the October Club, if you know what that is; a
Club of country members, who think the Ministers are too backward
in punishing and turning out the Whigs. I found my lord and the rest
thought I had more credit with the Ministry than I pretend to have,
and would have engaged me to put them upon something that would satisfy
their desires, and indeed I think they have some reason to complain;
however, I will not burn my fingers. I will remember Stella's chiding,
"What had you to do with what did not belong to you?" etc. However, you
will give me leave to tell the Ministry my thoughts when they ask them,
and other people's thoughts sometimes when they do not ask; so thinks
Dingley.

13. I called this morning at Mrs. Vedeau's again, who has employed a
friend to get the money; it will be done in a fortnight, and then she
will deliver me up the parchment. I went then to see Mr. Harley, who I
hope will be out in a few days; he was in excellent good humour, only
complained 