ned to go to Lord Treasurer; but it was too late, and beside I
was half broiled, and broiled without butter; for I never sweat after
dinner, if I drink any wine. Then I sat an hour with Lady Betty Butler
at tea, and everything made me hotter and drier. Then I walked home, and
was here by ten, so miserably hot, that I was in as perfect a passion as
ever I was in my life at the greatest affront or provocation. Then I sat
an hour, till I was quite dry and cool enough to go swim; which I did,
but with so much vexation that I think I have given it over: for I
was every moment disturbed by boats, rot them; and that puppy Patrick,
standing ashore, would let them come within a yard or two, and then call
sneakingly to them. The only comfort I proposed here in hot weather is
gone; for there is no jesting with those boats after it is dark: I had
none last night. I dived to dip my head, and held my cap on with both
my hands, for fear of losing it. Pox take the boats! Amen. 'Tis near
twelve, and so I'll answer your letter (it strikes twelve now) to-morrow
morning.

7. Morning. Well, now let us answer MD's letter, N.15, 15, 15, 15. Now
have I told you the number? 15, 15; there, impudence, to call names in
the beginning of your letter, before you say, How do you do, Mr. Presto?
There is your breeding! Where is your manners, sirrah, to a gentleman?
Get you gone, you couple of jades.--No, I never sit up late now; but
this abominable hot weather will force me to eat or drink something that
will do me hurt. I do venture to eat a few strawberries.--Why then, do
you know in Ireland that Mr. St. John talked so in Parliament?(21) Your
Whigs are plaguily bit; for he is entirely for their being all out.--And
are you as vicious in snuff as ever? I believe, as you say, it does
neither hurt nor good; but I have left it off, and when anybody offers
me their box, I take about a tenth part of what I used to do, and
then just smell to it, and privately fling the rest away. I keep to my
tobacco still,(22) as you say; but even much less of that than formerly,
only mornings and evenings, and very seldom in the day.--As for Joe,(23)
I have recommended his case heartily to my Lord Lieutenant; and, by
his direction, given a memorial of it to Mr. Southwell, to whom I have
recommended it likewise. I can do no more, if he were my brother. His
business will be to apply himself to Southwell. And you must desire
Raymond, if Price of Galway comes to town, to desire him to wait on Mr.
Southwell, as recommended by me for one of the Duke's chaplains, which
was all I could do for him; and he must be presented to the Duke, and
make his court, and ply about, and find out some vacancy, and solicit
early for it. The bustle about your Mayor I had before, as I told you,
from the Archbishop of Dublin. Was Raymond not come till May 18? So
he says fine things of me? Certainly he lies. I am sure I used him
indifferently enough; and we never once dined together, or walked, or
were in any third place; only he came sometimes to my lodgings, and even
there was oftener denied than admitted.--What an odd bill is that you
sent of Raymond's! A bill upon one Murry in Chester, which depends
entirely not only upon Raymond's honesty, but his discretion; and in
money matters he is the last man I would depend on. Why should Sir
Alexander Cairnes(24) in London pay me a bill, drawn by God knows who,
upon Murry in Chester? I was at Cairnes's, and they can do no such
thing. I went among some friends, who are merchants, and I find the bill
must be sent to Murry, accepted by him, and then returned back, and then
Cairnes may accept or refuse it as he pleases. Accordingly I gave Sir
Thomas Frankland the bill, who has sent it to Chester, and ordered the
postmaster there to get it accepted, and then send it back, and in a day
or two I shall have an answer; and therefore this letter must stay a day
or two longer than I intended, and see what answer I get. Raymond should
have written to Murry at the same time, to desire Sir Alexander Cairnes
to have answered such a bill, if it come. But Cairnes's clerks (himself
was not at home) said they had received no notice of it, and could do
nothing; and advised me to send to Murry.--I have been six weeks to-day
at Chelsea, and you know it but just now. And so Dean ------ thinks I
write the Medley. Pox of his judgment! It is equal to his honesty. Then
you han't seen the Miscellany yet?(25) Why, 'tis a four-shilling book:
has nobody carried it over?--No, I believe Manley(26) will not lose his
place; for his friend(27) in England is so far from being out that he
has taken a new patent since the Post Office Act; and his brother
Jack Manley(28) here takes his part firmly; and I have often spoken to
Southwell in his behalf, and he seems very well inclined to him. But the
Irish folks here in general are horribly violent against him. Besides,
he must consider he could not send Stella wine if he were put out. And
so he is very kind, and sends you a dozen bottles of wine AT A TIME,
and you win eight shillings AT A TIME; and how much do you lose? No, no,
never one syllable about