ts from a supposed Diary by Swift,
and contains such passages as these: "Friday. Go to the Club... Am
treated. Expenses one shilling." "Saturday. Bid my servant get all
things ready for a journey to the country: mend my breeches; hire a
washerwoman, making her allow for old shirts, socks, dabbs and markees,
which she bought of me... Six coaches of quality, and nine hacks, this
day called at my lodgings." "Thursday. The Earl looked queerly: left him
in a huff. Bid him send for me when he was fit for company... Spent ten
shillings."

14 The "little language" is marked chiefly by such changes of letters
(e.g., l for r, or r for l) as a child makes when learning to speak.
The combinations of letters in which Swift indulges are not so easy of
interpretation. For himself he uses Pdfr, and sometimes Podefar or FR
(perhaps Poor dear foolish rogue). Stella is Ppt (Poor pretty thing).
MD (my dears) usually stands for both Stella and Mrs. Dingley, but
sometimes for Stella alone. Mrs. Dingley is indicated by ME (Madam
Elderly), D, or DD (Dear Dingley). The letters FW may mean Farewell, or
Foolish Wenches. Lele seems sometimes to be There, there, and sometimes
Truly.




LETTER 1.

1. Addressed "To Mrs. Dingley, at Mr. Curry's house over against the
Ram in Capel Street, Dublin, Ireland," and endorsed by Esther Johnson,
"Sept. 9. Received." Afterwards Swift added, "MD received this Sept. 9,"
and "Letters to Ireland from Sept.1710, begun soon after the change of
Ministry. Nothing in this."

2. Beaumont is the "grey old fellow, poet Joe," of Swift's verses "On
the little house by the Churchyard at Castlenock." Joseph Beaumont, a
linen-merchant, is described as "a venerable, handsome, grey-headed man,
of quick and various natural abilities, but not improved by learning."
His inventions and mathematical speculations, relating to the longitude
and other things, brought on mental troubles, which were intensified
by bankruptcy, about 1718. He was afterwards removed from Dublin to his
home at Trim, where he rallied; but in a few years his madness returned,
and he committed suicide.

3. Vicar of Trim, and formerly a Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin. In
various places in his correspondence Swift criticises the failings of
Dr. Anthony Raymond, who was, says Scott, "a particular friend." His
unreliability in money matters, the improvidence of his large family,
his peculiarities in grammar, his pride in his good manners, all these
points are noticed in the journal and elsewhere. But when Dr. Raymond
returned to Ireland after a visit to London, Swift felt a little
melancholy, and regretted that he had not seen more of him. In July 1713
Raymond was presented to the Crown living of Moyenet.

4. A small township on the estuary of the Dee, between twelve and
thirteen miles north-west of Chester. In the early part of the
eighteenth century Parkgate was a rival of Holyhead as a station for the
Dublin packets, which started, on the Irish side, from off Kingsend.

5. Dr. St. George Ashe, afterwards Bishop of Derry, who had been Swift's
tutor at Trinity College, Dublin. He died in 1718. It is this lifelong
friend who is said to have married Swift and Esther Johnson in 1716.

6. The Commission to solicit for the remission of the First-Fruits and
twentieth parts, payable to the Crown by the Irish clergy, was signed
by the Archbishops of Armagh, Dublin, and Cashel, and the Bishops of
Kildare, Meath, and Killala.

7. Dr. William Lloyd was appointed Bishop of Killala in 1690. He had
previously been Dean of Achonry.

8. Dr. John Hough (1651-1743). In 1687 he had been elected President of
Magdalen College, Oxford, in place of the nominee of James II. Hough was
Bishop of Oxford, Lichfield, and Worcester successively, and declined
the primacy in 1715.

9. Steele was at this time Gazetteer. The Cockpit, in Whitehall, looked
upon St. James's Palace, and was used for various Government purposes.

10. This coffee-house, the resort of the Whig politicians, was kept by a
man named Elliot. It is often alluded to in the Tatler and Spectator.

11. William Stewart, second Viscount Mountjoy, a friend and
correspondent of Swift's in Ireland. He was the son of one of William's
generals, and was himself a Lieutenant-General and Master-General of the
Ordnance; he died in 1728.

12. Catherine, daughter of Maurice Keating, of Narraghmore, Kildare, and
wife of Garret Wesley, of Dangan, M.P. for Meath. She died in 1745. On
the death of Garret Wesley without issue in 1728, the property passed to
a cousin, Richard Colley, who was afterwards created Baron Mornington,
and was grandfather to the Duke of Wellington.

13. The landlady of Esther Johnson and Mrs. Dingley.

14. Swift's housekeeper at Laracor. Elsewhere Swift speaks of his "old
Presbyterian housekeeper," "who has been my Walpole above thirty years,
whenever I lived in this kingdom." "Joe Beaumont is my oracle for public
affairs in the country, and an old Presbyterian woman in town."

15. Isaiah Parvisol, Swift's tithe-agent and steward at Laracor, was an
Irishman of French extraction, who died in 1718 (Birkbeck's Unpublished
Letter