etters;
because he would keep the best to the last, I suppose. Well, Presto must
be humoured, it must be as he will have it, or there will be an old to
do.(11) Dead with heat; are not you very hot? My walks make my forehead
sweat rarely; sometimes my morning journey is by water, as it was to-day
with one Parson Richardson,(12) who came to see me, on his going to
Ireland; and with him I send Mrs. Walls's tea, and three books(13) I
got from the Lords of the Treasury for the College. I dined with Lord
Shelburne to-day; Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt are going likewise for
Ireland.--Lord! I forgot, I dined with Mr. Prior to-day, at his house,
with Dean Atterbury and others; and came home pretty late, and I think
I'm in a fuzz, and don't know what I say, never saw the like.

17. Sterne came here by water to see me this morning, and I went back
with him to his boat. He tells me that Mrs. Edgworth(14) married a
fellow in her journey to Chester; so I believe she little thought of
anybody's box but her own. I desired Sterne to give me directions where
to get the box in Chester, which he says he will to-morrow; and I will
write to Richardson to get it up there as he goes by, and whip it over.
It is directed to Mrs. Curry: you must caution her of it, and desire
her to send it you when it comes. Sterne says Jemmy Leigh loves London
mightily; that makes him stay so long, I believe, and not Sterne's
business, which Mr. Harley's accident has put much backward. We expect
now every day that he will be Earl of Oxford and Lord Treasurer. His
patent is passing; but, they say, Lord Keeper's not yet; at least his
son, young Harcourt, told me so t'other day. I dined to-day privately
with my friend Lewis at his lodgings at Whitehall. T'other day at
Whitehall I met a lady of my acquaintance, whom I had not seen before
since I came to England; we were mighty glad to see each other, and she
has engaged me to visit her, as I design to do. It is one Mrs. Colledge:
she has lodgings at Whitehall, having been seamstress to King William,
worth three hundred a year. Her father was a fanatic joiner,(15) hanged
for treason in Shaftesbury's plot. This noble person and I were brought
acquainted, some years ago, by Lady Berkeley.(16) I love good creditable
acquaintance: I love to be the worst of the company: I am not of those
that say, "For want of company, welcome trumpery." I was this evening
with Lady Kerry and Mrs. Pratt at Vauxhall, to hear the nightingales;
but they are almost past singing.

18. I was hunting the Secretary to-day in vain about some business, and
dined with Colonel Crowe, late Governor of Barbados,(17) and your friend
Sterne was the third: he is very kind to Sterne, and helps him in his
business, which lies asleep till Mr. Harley is Lord Treasurer, because
nothing of moment is now done in the Treasury, the change being expected
every day. I sat with Dean Atterbury till one o'clock after I came home;
so 'tis late, etc.

19. Do you know that about our town we are mowing already and making
hay, and it smells so sweet as we walk through the flowery meads; but
the hay-making nymphs are perfect drabs, nothing so clean and pretty as
farther in the country. There is a mighty increase of dirty wenches in
straw hats since I knew London. I stayed at home till five o'clock, and
dined with Dean Atterbury; then went by water to Mr. Harley's, where the
Saturday Club was met, with the addition of the Duke of Shrewsbury. I
whispered Lord Rivers that I did not like to see a stranger among us;
and the rogue told it aloud: but Mr. Secretary said the Duke writ to
have leave; so I appeared satisfied, and so we laughed. Mr. Secretary
told me the Duke of Buckingham(18) had been talking to him much about
me, and desired my acquaintance. I answered it could not be, for he
had not made sufficient advances. Then the Duke of Shrewsbury said he
thought that Duke was not used to make advances. I said I could not help
that; for I always expected advances in proportion to men's quality, and
more from a duke than any other man. The Duke replied that he did not
mean anything of his quality; which was handsomely said enough; for he
meant his pride: and I have invented a notion to believe that nobody
is proud. At ten all the company went away; and from ten to twelve
Mr. Harley and I sat together, where we talked through a great deal
of matters I had a mind to settle with him; and then walked in a fine
moonshine night to Chelsea, where I got by one. Lord Rivers conjured me
not to walk so late; but I would, because I had no other way; but I had
no money to lose.

20. By what the Lord Keeper told me last night, I find he will not be
made a peer so soon; but Mr. Harley's patent for Earl of Oxford is now
drawing, and will be done in three days. We made him own it, which he
did scurvily, and then talked of it like the rest. Mr. Secretary had too
much company with him to-day; so I came away soon after dinner. I give
no man liberty to swear or talk b---dy, and I found some of them were
in constraint, so I left them to themselves. I wish you a merry
Whitsuntide, and pray tell me how you pass