 same manner.  For, although he queen had
ordered a little equipage of all things necessary for me, while I was in
her service, yet my ideas were wholly taken up with what I saw on every
side of me, and I winked at my own littleness, as people do at their own
faults.  The captain understood my raillery very well, and merrily
replied with the old English proverb, “that he doubted mine eyes were
bigger than my belly, for he did not observe my stomach so good, although
I had fasted all day;” and, continuing in his mirth, protested “he would
have gladly given a hundred pounds, to have seen my closet in the eagle’s
bill, and afterwards in its fall from so great a height into the sea;
which would certainly have been a most astonishing object, worthy to have
the description of it transmitted to future ages:” and the comparison of
Phaëton was so obvious, that he could not forbear applying it, although I
did not much admire the conceit.

The captain having been at Tonquin, was, in his return to England, driven
north-eastward to the latitude of 44 degrees, and longitude of 143.  But
meeting a trade-wind two days after I came on board him, we sailed
southward a long time, and coasting New Holland, kept our course
west-south-west, and then south-south-west, till we doubled the Cape of
Good Hope.  Our voyage was very prosperous, but I shall not trouble the
reader with a journal of it.  The captain called in at one or two ports,
and sent in his long-boat for provisions and fresh water; but I never
went out of the ship till we came into the Downs, which was on the third
day of June, 1706, about nine months after my escape.  I offered to leave
my goods in security for payment of my freight: but the captain protested
he would not receive one farthing.  We took a kind leave of each other,
and I made him promise he would come to see me at my house in Redriff.  I
hired a horse and guide for five shillings, which I borrowed of the
captain.

As I was on the road, observing the littleness of the houses, the trees,
the cattle, and the people, I began to think myself in Lilliput.  I was
afraid of trampling on every traveller I met, and often called aloud to
have them stand out of the way, so that I had like to have gotten one or
two broken heads for my impertinence.

When I came to my own house, for which I was forced to inquire, one of
the servants opening the door, I bent down to go in, (like a goose under
a gate,) for fear of striking my head.  My wife run out to embrace me,
but I stooped lower than her knees, thinking she could otherwise never be
able to reach my mouth.  My daughter kneeled to ask my blessing, but I
could not see her till she arose, having been so long used to stand with
my head and eyes erect to above sixty feet; and then I went to take her
up with one hand by the waist.  I looked down upon the servants, and one
or two friends who were in the house, as if they had been pigmies and I a
giant.  I told my wife, “she had been too thrifty, for I found she had
starved herself and her daughter to nothing.”  In short, I behaved myself
so unaccountably, that they were all of the captain’s opinion when he
first saw me, and concluded I had lost my wits.  This I mention as an
instance of the great power of habit and prejudice.

In a little time, I and my family and friends came to a right
understanding: but my wife protested “I should never go to sea any more;”
although my evil destiny so ordered, that she had not power to hinder me,
as the reader may know hereafter.  In the mean time, I here conclude the
second part of my unfortunate voyages.






PART III.  A VOYAGE TO LAPUTA, BALNIBARBI, LUGGNAGG, GLUBBDUBDRIB, AND
JAPAN.






CHAPTER I.


The author sets out on his third voyage.  Is taken by pirates.  The
malice of a Dutchman.  His arrival at an island.  He is received into
Laputa.

I had not been at home above ten days, when Captain William Robinson, a
Cornish man, commander of the Hopewell, a stout ship of three hundred
tons, came to my house.  I had formerly been surgeon of another ship
where he was master, and a fourth part owner, in a voyage to the Levant.
He had always treated me more like a brother, than an inferior officer;
and, hearing of my arrival, made me a visit, as I apprehended only out of
friendship, for nothing passed more than what is usual after long
absences.  But repeating his visits often, expressing his joy to find I
me in good health, asking, “whether I were now settled for life?” adding,
“that he intended a voyage to the East Indies in two months,” at last he
plainly invited me, though with some apologies, to be surgeon of the
ship; “that I should have another surgeon under me, beside our two mates;
that my salary should be double to the usual pay; and that having
experienced my knowledge in sea-affairs to be at least equal to his, he
would enter into any engagement to follow my advice, as much as if I had
shared in the command.”

He said so many other obliging things, and I knew him to be so honest a
man, that I could not reject this proposal; the thirst I had of seeing
the world, notwithstanding my past mis