 an hour upon some business. I returned answer that I
would wait on him; which I did. We discoursed a while, and he left me
with Lady Orkney; and in came the Earl of Selkirk, whom I had never seen
before. He is another brother of the Duke of Hamilton, and is going to
France, by a power from his mother, the old Duchess,(26) to negotiate
their pretensions to the duchy of Chatelherault. He teased me for two
hours in spite of my teeth, and held my hand when I offered to stir;
would have had me engage the Ministry to favour him against Lord
Abercorn, and to convince them that Lord Abercorn had no pretensions;
and desired I would also convince Lord Abercorn himself so; and
concluded he was sorry I was a greater friend to Abercorn than Hamilton.
I had no patience, and used him with some plainness. Am not I purely
handled between a couple of puppies? Ay, says Ppt, you must be meddling
in other folks' affairs. I appeal to the Bishop of Clogher whether
Abercorn did not complain that I would not let him see me last year,
and that he swore he would take no denial from my servant when he came
again. The Ministers gave me leave to tell the Hamilton family it was
their opinion that they ought to agree with Abercorn. Lord Anglesea
was then by, and told Abercorn; upon which he gravely tells me I was
commissioned by the Ministers, and ought to perform my commission,
etc.--But I'll have done with them. I have warned Lord Treasurer and
Lord Bolingbroke to beware of Selkirk's teasing; --x on him! Yet
Abercorn vexes me more. The whelp owes to me all the kind receptions he
has had from the Ministry. I dined to-day at Lord Treasurer's with the
young folks, and sat with Lord Treasurer till nine, and then was forced
to Lady Masham's, and sat there till twelve, talking of affairs, till I
am out of humour, as everyone must that knows them inwardly. A thousand
things wrong, most of them easy to mend; yet our schemes availing at
best but little, and sometimes nothing at all. One evil, which I twice
patched up with the hazard of all the credit I had, is now spread more
than ever.(27) But burn politics, and send me from Courts and Ministers!
Nite deelest richar MD.

2. I sauntered about this morning, and went with Dr. Pratt to a picture
auction, where I had like to be drawn in to buy a picture that I was
fond of, but, it seems, was good for nothing. Pratt was there to buy
some pictures for the Bishop of Clogher, who resolves to lay out ten
pounds to furnish his house with curious pieces. We dined with the
Bishop, I being by chance disengaged. And this evening I sat with
the Bishop of Ossory,(28) who is laid up with the gout. The French
Ambassador, Duke d'Aumont,(29) came to town to-night; and the rabble
conducted him home with shouts. I cannot smell yet, though my cold
begins to break. It continues cruel hard frosty weather. Go and be
melly,... sollahs.(30)

3. Lord Dupplin and I went with Lord and Lady Orkney this morning at
ten to Wimbledon, six miles off, to see Lord and Lady Caermarthen. It is
much the finest place about this town. Did oo never see it? I was once
there before, about five years ago. You know Lady Caermarthen is Lord
Treasurer's daughter, married about three weeks ago. I hope the young
fellow will be a good husband.--I must send this away now. I came back
just by nightfall, cruel cold weather; I have no smell yet, but my cold
something better. Nite (?) sollahs; I'll take my reeve. I forget how
MD's accounts are. Pray let me know always timely before MD wants; and
pray give the bill on t'other side to Mrs. Brent as usual. I believe I
have not paid her this great while. Go, play cards, and... rove Pdfr.
Nite richar MD... roves Pdfr. FW lele.. . MD MD MD MD MD FW FW FW FW MD
MD Lele...(31)

The six odd shillings, tell Mrs. Brent, are for her new year's gift.



I(32) am just now told that poor dear Lady Ashburnham,(33) the Duke
of Ormond's daughter, died yesterday at her country house. The poor
creature was with child. She was my greatest favourite, and I am in
excessive concern for her loss. I hardly knew a more valuable person on
all accounts. You must have heard me talk of her. I am afraid to see the
Duke and Duchess. She was naturally very healthy; I am afraid she has
been thrown away for want of care. Pray condole with me. 'Tis extremely
moving. Her lord's a puppy; and I shall never think it worth my while
to be troubled with him, now he has lost all that was valuable in his
possession; yet I think he used her pretty well. I hate life when I
think it exposed to such accidents; and to see so many thousand wretches
burdening the earth, while such as her die, makes me think God did never
intend life for a blessing. Farewell.




LETTER 58.(1)

LONDON, Jan. 4, 1712-13.

I ended my last with the melancholy news of poor Lady Ashburnham's
death. The Bishop of Clogher and Dr. Pratt made me dine with them to-day
at Lord Mountjoy's, pursuant to an engagement, which I had forgot. Lady
Mountjoy told me that Maccartney was got safe out of our clutches, for
she had spoke with one who had a letter from him from Holland. Others
say the same thing. 'Ti