the Secretary, who is to treat
as President, must be in the House. I fancy my talking of persons and
things here must be very tedious to you, because you know nothing of
them, and I talk as if you did. You know Kevin's Street, and Werburgh
Street, and (what do you call the street where Mrs. Walls lives?) and
Ingoldsby,(8) and Higgins,(9) and Lord Santry;(10) but what care you for
Lady Catherine Hyde? Why do you say nothing of your health, sirrah? I
hope it is well.

31. Trimnel, Bishop of Norwich,(11) who was with this Lord Sunderland
at Moor Park in their travels, preached yesterday before the House
of Lords; and to-day the question was put to thank him, and print his
sermon; but passed against him; for it was a terrible Whig sermon. The
Bill to repeal the Act for naturalising Protestant foreigners passed the
House of Lords to-day by a majority of twenty, though the Scotch lords
went out, and would vote neither way, in discontent about the Duke of
Hamilton's patent, if you know anything of it. A poem is come out to-day
inscribed to me, by way of a flirt;(12) for it is a Whiggish poem, and
good for nothing. They plagued me with it in the Court of Requests. I
dined with Lord Treasurer at five alone, only with one Dutchman. Prior
is now a Commissioner of the Customs. I told you so before, I suppose.
When I came home to-night, I found a letter from Dr. Sacheverell,
thanking me for recommending his brother to Lord Treasurer and Mr.
Secretary for a place. Lord Treasurer sent to him about it: so good a
solicitor was I, although I once hardly thought I should be a solicitor
for Sacheverell.

Feb. 1. Has not your Dean of St. Patrick received my letter? you say
nothing of it, although I writ above a month ago. My printer has got the
gout, and I was forced to go to him to-day, and there I dined. It was a
most delicious day: why don't you observe whether the same days be fine
with you? To-night, at six, Dr. Atterbury, and Prior, and I, and Dr.
Freind, met at Dr. Robert Freind's(13) house at Westminster, who is
master of the school: there we sat till one, and were good enough
company. I here take leave to tell politic Dingley that the passage
in the Conduct of the Allies is so far from being blamable that the
Secretary designs to insist upon it in the House of Commons, when the
Treaty of Barrier(14) is debated there, as it now shortly will, for they
have ordered it to be laid before them. The pamphlet of Advice to the
October Club begins now to sell; but I believe its fame will hardly
reach Ireland: 'tis finely written, I assure you. I long to answer your
letter, but won't yet; you know, 'tis late, etc.

2. This ends Christmas,(15) and what care I? I have neither seen, nor
felt, nor heard any Christmas this year. I passed a lazy dull day. I was
this morning with Lord Treasurer, to get some papers from him, which
he will remember as much as a cat, although it be his own business. It
threatened rain, but did not much; and Prior and I walked an hour in the
Park, which quite put me out of my measures. I dined with a friend hard
by; and in the evening sat with Lord Masham till twelve. Lord Treasurer
did not come; this is an idle dining-day usually with him. We want to
hear from Holland how our peace goes on; for we are afraid of those
scoundrels the Dutch, lest they should play us tricks. Lord Mar,(16) a
Scotch earl, was with us at Lord Masham's: I was arguing with him about
the stubbornness and folly of his countrymen; they are so angry about
the affair of the Duke of Hamilton, whom the Queen has made a duke of
England, and the House of Lords will not admit him. He swears he would
vote for us, but dare not, because all Scotland would detest him if he
did: he should never be chosen again, nor be able to live there.

3. I was at Court to-day to look for a dinner, but did not like any that
were offered me; and I dined with Lord Mountjoy. The Queen has the gout
in her knee, and was not at chapel. I hear we have a Dutch mail, but I
know not what news, although I was with the Secretary this morning. He
showed me a letter from the Hanover Envoy, Mr. Bothmar, complaining that
the Barrier Treaty is laid before the House of Commons; and desiring
that no infringement may be made in the guarantee of the succession; but
the Secretary has written him a peppering answer. I fancy you understand
all this, and are able states-girls, since you have read the Conduct
of the Allies. We are all preparing against the Birthday; I think it
is Wednesday next. If the Queen's gout increases, it will spoil sport.
Prince Eugene has two fine suits made against it; and the Queen is
to give him a sword worth four thousand pounds, the diamonds set
transparent.

4. I was this morning soliciting at the House of Commons' door for Mr.
Vesey, a son of the Archbishop of Tuam,(17) who has petitioned for a
Bill to relieve him in some difficulty about his estate: I secured him
above fifty members. I dined with Lady Masham. We have no packet from
Holland, as I was told yesterday: and this wind will hinder many people
from appearing at the Birthday, who expected clothes from Holland. I