xceed us in
number; but the power is wholly on our side.  We apprehend his imperial
highness, the heir to the crown, to have some tendency towards the high
heels; at least we can plainly discover that one of his heels is higher
than the other, which gives him a hobble in his gait.  Now, in the midst
of these intestine disquiets, we are threatened with an invasion from the
island of Blefuscu, which is the other great empire of the universe,
almost as large and powerful as this of his majesty.  For as to what we
have heard you affirm, that there are other kingdoms and states in the
world inhabited by human creatures as large as yourself, our philosophers
are in much doubt, and would rather conjecture that you dropped from the
moon, or one of the stars; because it is certain, that a hundred mortals
of your bulk would in a short time destroy all the fruits and cattle of
his majesty’s dominions: besides, our histories of six thousand moons
make no mention of any other regions than the two great empires of
Lilliput and Blefuscu.  Which two mighty powers have, as I was going to
tell you, been engaged in a most obstinate war for six-and-thirty moons
past.  It began upon the following occasion.  It is allowed on all hands,
that the primitive way of breaking eggs, before we eat them, was upon the
larger end; but his present majesty’s grandfather, while he was a boy,
going to eat an egg, and breaking it according to the ancient practice,
happened to cut one of his fingers.  Whereupon the emperor his father
published an edict, commanding all his subjects, upon great penalties, to
break the smaller end of their eggs.  The people so highly resented this
law, that our histories tell us, there have been six rebellions raised on
that account; wherein one emperor lost his life, and another his crown.
These civil commotions were constantly fomented by the monarchs of
Blefuscu; and when they were quelled, the exiles always fled for refuge
to that empire.  It is computed that eleven thousand persons have at
several times suffered death, rather than submit to break their eggs at
the smaller end.  Many hundred large volumes have been published upon
this controversy: but the books of the Big-endians have been long
forbidden, and the whole party rendered incapable by law of holding
employments.  During the course of these troubles, the emperors of
Blefusca did frequently expostulate by their ambassadors, accusing us of
making a schism in religion, by offending against a fundamental doctrine
of our great prophet Lustrog, in the fifty-fourth chapter of the
Blundecral (which is their Alcoran).  This, however, is thought to be a
mere strain upon the text; for the words are these: ‘that all true
believers break their eggs at the convenient end.’  And which is the
convenient end, seems, in my humble opinion to be left to every man’s
conscience, or at least in the power of the chief magistrate to
determine.  Now, the Big-endian exiles have found so much credit in the
emperor of Blefuscu’s court, and so much private assistance and
encouragement from their party here at home, that a bloody war has been
carried on between the two empires for six-and-thirty moons, with various
success; during which time we have lost forty capital ships, and a much a
greater number of smaller vessels, together with thirty thousand of our
best seamen and soldiers; and the damage received by the enemy is
reckoned to be somewhat greater than ours.  However, they have now
equipped a numerous fleet, and are just preparing to make a descent upon
us; and his imperial majesty, placing great confidence in your valour and
strength, has commanded me to lay this account of his affairs before
you.”

I desired the secretary to present my humble duty to the emperor; and to
let him know, “that I thought it would not become me, who was a
foreigner, to interfere with parties; but I was ready, with the hazard of
my life, to defend his person and state against all invaders.”



CHAPTER V.


The author, by an extraordinary stratagem, prevents an invasion.  A high
title of honour is conferred upon him.  Ambassadors arrive from the
emperor of Blefuscu, and sue for peace.  The empress’s apartment on fire
by an accident; the author instrumental in saving the rest of the palace.

The empire of Blefuscu is an island situated to the north-east of
Lilliput, from which it is parted only by a channel of eight hundred
yards wide.  I had not yet seen it, and upon this notice of an intended
invasion, I avoided appearing on that side of the coast, for fear of
being discovered, by some of the enemy’s ships, who had received no
intelligence of me; all intercourse between the two empires having been
strictly forbidden during the war, upon pain of death, and an embargo
laid by our emperor upon all vessels whatsoever.  I communicated to his
majesty a project I had formed of seizing the enemy’s whole fleet; which,
as our scouts assured us, lay at anchor in the harbour, ready to sail
with the first fair wind.  I consulted the most experienced seamen upon
the depth of the channel, which they had often plumbed; who told 