 assures me he will. They are very
bold and abusive.

22. This being the day the Ministry come to Windsor, I ate a bit or two
at Mr. Lewis's lodgings, because I must sup with Lord Treasurer; and at
half an hour after one, I led Mr. Lewis a walk up the avenue, which is
two miles long. We walked in all about five miles; but I was so tired
with his slow walking, that I left him here, and walked two miles
towards London, hoping to meet Lord Treasurer, and return with him; but
it grew darkish, and I was forced to walk back, so I walked nine miles
in all; and Lord Treasurer did not come till after eight; which is very
wrong, for there was no moon, and I often tell him how ill he does to
expose himself so; but he only makes a jest of it. I supped with him,
and stayed till now, when it is half an hour after two. He is as merry
and careless and disengaged as a young heir at one-and-twenty. 'Tis late
indeed.

23. The Secretary did not come last night, but at three this afternoon.
I have not seen him yet, but I verily think they are contriving a peace
as fast as they can, without which it will be impossible to subsist. The
Queen was at church to-day, but was carried in a chair. I and Mr. Lewis
dined privately with Mr. Lowman,(16) Clerk of the Kitchen. I was to see
Lord Keeper this morning, and told him the jest of the maids of honour;
and Lord Treasurer had it last night. That rogue Arbuthnot puts it all
upon me. The Court was very full to-day. I expected Lord Treasurer
would have invited me to supper; but he only bowed to me; and we had
no discourse in the drawing-room. It is now seven at night, and I am at
home; and I hope Lord Treasurer will not send for me to supper: if he
does not, I will reproach him; and he will pretend to chide me for not
coming.--So farewell till I go to bed, for I am going to be busy.--It is
now past ten, and I went down to ask the servants about Mr. Secretary:
they tell me the Queen is yet at Council, and that she went to supper,
and came out to the Council afterwards. It is certain they are managing
a peace. I will go to bed, and there is an end.--It is now eleven, and
a messenger is come from Lord Treasurer to sup with them; but I have
excused myself, and am glad I am in bed; for else I should sit up till
two, and drink till I was hot. Now I'll go sleep.

London, 24. I came to town by six with Lord Treasurer, and have stayed
till ten. That of the Queen's going out to sup, and coming in again, is
a lie, as the Secretary told me this morning; but I find the Ministry
are very busy with Mr. Prior, and I believe he will go again to France.
I am told so much, that we shall certainly have a peace very soon. I had
charming weather all last week at Windsor; but we have had a little rain
to-day, and yesterday was windy. Prior's Journey sells still; they have
sold two thousand, although the town is empty. I found a letter from
Mrs. Fenton here, desiring me, in Lady Giffard's name, to come and pass
a week at Sheen, while she is at Moor Park. I will answer it with a
vengeance: and now you talk of answering, there is MD's N.20 is yet to
be answered: I had put it up so safe, I could hardly find it; but here
it is, faith, and I am afraid I cannot send this till Thursday; for I
must see the Secretary to-morrow morning, and be in some other place in
the evening.

25. Stella writes like an emperor, and gives such an account of her
journey, never saw the like. Let me see; stand away, let us compute; you
stayed four days at Inish-Corthy, two nights at Mrs. Proby's mother's,
and yet was but six days in journey; for your words are, "We left
Wexford this day se'ennight, and came here last night." I have heard
them say that "travellers may lie by authority." Make up this, if you
can. How far is it from Wexford to Dublin? how many miles did you travel
in a day?(17) Let me see--thirty pounds in two months is nine score
pounds a year; a matter of nothing in Stella's purse! I dreamed Billy
Swift was alive, and that I told him you writ me word he was dead, and
that you had been at his funeral; and I admired at your impudence, and
was in mighty haste to run and let you know what lying rogues you were.
Poor lad! he is dead of his mother's former folly and fondness; and yet
now I believe, as you say, that her grief will soon wear off.--O
yes, Madam Dingley, mightily tired of the company, no doubt of it, at
Wexford! And your description of it is excellent; clean sheets, but bare
walls; I suppose then you lay upon the walls.--Mrs. Walls has got her
tea; but who pays me the money? Come, I shall never get it; so I make a
present of it, to stop some gaps, etc. Where's the thanks of the house?
So, that's well; why, it cost four-and-thirty shillings English--you
must adjust that with Mrs. Walls; I think that is so many pence more
with you.--No, Leigh and Sterne, I suppose, were not at the water-side:
I fear Sterne's business will not be done; I have not seen him this
good while. I hate him, for the management of that box; and I was the
greatest fool in nature for trusting to such a young jackanapes; I will
speak to him once more about it, when I