e you, if I
han't one from MD before night, that's certain. Won't you grumble for
want of the third side, pray now? Yes, I warrant you; yes, yes, you
shall have the third, you shall so, when you can catch it, some other
time; when you be writing girls.--O, faith, I think I won't stay till
night, but seal up this just now, and carry it in my pocket, and whip
it into the post-office as I come home at evening. I am going out
early this morning.--Patrick's bills for coals and candles, etc., come
sometimes to three shillings a week; I keep very good fires, though the
weather be warm. Ireland will never be happy till you get small coal(27)
likewise; nothing so easy, so convenient, so cheap, so pretty, for
lighting a fire. My service to Mrs. Stoyte and Walls; has she a boy or a
girl? A girl, hum; and died in a week, humm; and was poor Stella forced
to stand for godmother?--Let me know how accompts stand, that you may
have your money betimes. There's four months for my lodging, that must
be thought on too: and so go dine with Manley, and lose your money, do,
extravagant sluttikin, but don't fret.--It will be just three weeks when
I have the next letter, that's to-morrow. Farewell, dearest beloved MD;
and love poor, poor Presto, who has not had one happy day since he left
you, as hope saved.--It is the last sally I will ever make, but I hope
it will turn to some account. I have done more for these,(28) and
I think they are more honest than the last; however, I will not
be disappointed. I would make MD and me easy; and I never desired
more.--Farewell, etc. etc.




LETTER 14.

LONDON, Jan. 16, 1710-11.

O faith, young women, I have sent my letter N.13 without one crumb of an
answer to any of MD's, there's for you now; and yet Presto ben't angry,
faith, not a bit, only he will begin to be in pain next Irish post,
except he sees MD's little handwriting in the glass-frame at the bar
of St. James's Coffee-house, where Presto would never go but for that
purpose. Presto is at home, God help him, every night from six till
bed-time, and has as little enjoyment or pleasure in life at present as
anybody in the world, although in full favour with all the Ministry. As
hope saved, nothing gives Presto any sort of dream of happiness but a
letter now and then from his own dearest MD. I love the expectation of
it; and when it does not come, I comfort myself that I have it yet to
be happy with. Yes, faith, and when I write to MD, I am happy too; it is
just as if methinks you were here, and I prating to you, and telling you
where I have been: "Well," says you, "Presto, come, where have you been
to-day? come, let's hear now." And so then I answer: "Ford and I were
visiting Mr. Lewis and Mr. Prior; and Prior has given me a fine Plautus;
and then Ford would have had me dine at his lodgings, and so I would
not; and so I dined with him at an eating-house, which I have not done
five times since I came here; and so I came home, after visiting Sir
Andrew Fountaine's mother and sister, and Sir Andrew Fountaine is
mending, though slowly."

17. I was making, this morning, some general visits, and at twelve I
called at the Coffee-house for a letter from MD; so the man said he had
given it to Patrick. Then I went to the Court of Requests and Treasury,
to find Mr. Harley, and, after some time spent in mutual reproaches,
I promised to dine with him. I stayed there till seven, then called
at Sterne's and Leigh's to talk about your box, and to have it sent by
Smyth. Sterne says he has been making inquiries, and will set things
right as soon as possible. I suppose it lies at Chester, at least I hope
so, and only wants a lift over to you. Here has little Harrison been
to complain that the printer I recommended to him for his Tatler is a
coxcomb; and yet to see how things will happen; for this very printer
is my cousin, his name is Dryden Leach;(1) did you never hear of Dryden
Leach, he that prints the Postman? He acted Oroonoko;(2) he's in love
with Miss Cross.(3)--Well, so I came home to read my letter from Stella,
but the dog Patrick was abroad; at last he came, and I got my letter.
I found another hand had superscribed it; when I opened it, I found it
written all in French, and subscribed Bernage:(4) faith, I was ready to
fling it at Patrick's head. Bernage tells me he had been to desire your
recommendation to me, to make him a captain; and your cautious answer,
that he had as much power with me as you, was a notable one; if you
were here, I would present you to the Ministry as a person of ability.
Bernage should let me know where to write to him; this is the second
letter I have had without any direction; however, I beg I may not have a
third, but that you will ask him, and send me how I shall direct to him.
In the meantime, tell him that if regiments are to be raised here, as he
says, I will speak to George Granville,(5) Secretary at War, to make him
a captain; and use what other interest I conveniently can. I think that
is enough, and so tell him, and do not trouble me with his letters, when
I expect them from MD; do you hear, young women? write to Presto.

18. I w