vy, malice and resentment can
hurry some men, my nameless old persecutor had provided me a monument at
the stone-cutter's and would have erected it in the parish-church; and
this piece of notorious and expensive villany had actually succeeded,
had I not used my utmost interest with the vestry, where it was carried
at last but by two voices, that I am still alive. That stratagem
failing, out comes a long sable elegy, bedeck'd with hour-glasses,
mattocks, sculls, spades, and skeletons, with an epitaph as confidently
written to abuse me, and my profession, as if I had been under ground
these twenty years.

And, after such barbarous treatment as this, can the world blame me,
when I ask, What is become of the freedom of an Englishman? And where
is the liberty and property that my old glorious friend came over to
assert? We have drove popery out of the nation, and sent slavery to
foreign climes. The arts only remain in bondage, when a man of science
and character shall be openly insulted in the midst of the many useful
services he is daily paying to the publick. Was it ever heard, even in
Turkey or Algiers, that a state-astrologer was banter'd out of his
life by an ignorant impostor, or bawl'd out of the world by a pack of
villanous, deep-mouth'd hawkers? Though I print almanacks, and publish
advertisements; though I produce certificates under the ministers
and church-wardens hands I am alive, and attest the same on oath at
quarter-sessions, out comes a full and true relation of the death and
interment of John Partridge; Truth is bore down, attestations neglected,
the testimony of sober persons despised, and a man is looked upon by his
neighbours as if he had been seven years dead, and is buried alive in
the midst of his friends and acquaintance.

Now can any man of common sense think it consistent with the honour of
my profession, and not much beneath the dignity of a philosopher, to
stand bawling before his own door?---- Alive! Alive ho! The famous Dr.
Partridge! No counterfeit, but all alive!---- As if I had the twelve
celestial monsters of the zodiac to shew within, or was forced for a
livelihood to turn retailer to May and Bartholomew Fairs. Therefore, if
Her Majesty would but graciously be pleased to think a hardship of this
nature worthy her royal consideration, and the next parliament, in their
great wisdom cast but an eye towards the deplorable case of their old
philomath, that annually bestows his poetical good wishes on them, I am
sure there is one Isaac Bickerstaff, Esq; would soon be truss'd up for
his bloody predictions, and putting good subjects in terror of their
lives: And that henceforward to murder a man by way of prophecy, and
bury him in a printed letter, either to a lord or commoner, shall as
legally entitle him to the present possession of Tyburn, as if he robb'd
on the highway, or cut your throat in bed.

I shall demonstrate to the judicious, that France and Rome are at the
bottom of this horrid conspiracy against me; and that culprit aforesaid
is a popish emissary, has paid his visits to St. Germains, and is now in
the measures of Lewis XIV. That in attempting my reputation, there is
a general massacre of learning designed in these realms; and through my
sides there is a wound given to all the Protestant almanack-makers in
the universe.

Vivat Regina.


*****




A vindication of Isaac Bickerstaff, Esq;

against what is objected to him by Mr. Partridge in his almanack for the
present year 1709.

By the said Isaac Bickerstaff, Esq;

Written in the year 1709.

Mr. Partridge hath been lately pleased to treat me after a very rough
manner, in that which is called, his almanack for the present year: Such
usage is very undecent from one gentleman to another, and does not at
all contribute to the discovery of truth, which ought to be the great
end in all disputes of the learned. To call a man fool and villain,
and impudent fellow, only for differing from him in a point meer
speculative, is, in my humble opinion, a very improper style for a
person of his education. I appeal to the learned world, whether in
my last year's predictions I gave him the least provocation for such
unworthy treatment. Philosophers have differed in all ages; but the
discreetest among them have always differed as became philosophers.
Scurrility and passion, in a controversy among scholars, is just so much
of nothing to the purpose, and at best, a tacit confession of a weak
cause: My concern is not so much for my own reputation, as that of the
Republick of Letters, which Mr. Partridge hath endeavoured to wound
through my sides. If men of publick spirit must be superciliously
treated for their ingenious attempts, how will true useful knowledge
be ever advanced? I wish Mr. Partridge knew the thoughts which foreign
universities have conceived of his ungenerous proceedings with me; but
I am too tender of his reputation to publish them to the world. That
spirit of envy and pride, which blasts so many rising genius's in
our nation, is yet unknown among professors abroad: The necessity of
justifying myself will excuse my vanity, when I tell the read