f ten times ago; and it is no regard to him,
but myself, that has made me keep him so long. Now I am afraid to give
the rogue his clothes. What shall I do? I wish MD were here to entreat
for him, just here at the bed's side. Lady Ashburnham(3) has been
engaging me this long time to dine with her, and I set to-day apart for
it; and whatever was the mistake, she sent me word she was at dinner and
undressed, but would be glad to see me in the afternoon: so I dined with
Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and would not go to see her at all, in a huff. My fine
Florence is turning sour with a vengeance, and I have not drunk half of
it. As I was coming home to-night, Sir Thomas Mansel and Tom Harley(4)
met me in the Park, and made me walk with them till nine, like
unreasonable whelps; so I got not here till ten: but it was a fine
evening, and the foot-path clean enough already after this hard rain.

27. Going this morning to town, I saw two old lame fellows, walking to
a brandy-shop, and when they got to the door, stood a long time
complimenting who should go in first. Though this be no jest to tell, it
was an admirable one to see. I dined to-day with my Lord Oxford and the
ladies, the new Countess, and Lady Betty,(5) who has been these three
days a lady born. My lord left us at seven, and I had no time to speak
to him about some affairs; but he promises in a day or two we shall dine
alone; which is mighty likely, considering we expect every moment that
the Queen will give him the staff, and then he will be so crowded he
will be good for nothing: for aught I know he may have it to-night at
Council.

28. I had a petition sent me t'other day from one Stephen Gernon,
setting forth that he formerly lived with Harry Tenison,(6) who gave him
an employment of gauger, and that he was turned out after Harry's death,
and came for England, and is now starving, or, as he expresses it, THAT
THE STAFF OF LIFE HAS BEEN OF LATE A STRANGER TO HIS APPETITE. Today
the poor fellow called, and I knew him very well, a young slender fellow
with freckles in his face: you must remember him; he waited at table as
a better sort of servant. I gave him a crown, and promised to do what I
could to help him to a service, which I did for Harry Tenison's memory.
It was bloody hot walking to-day, and I was so lazy I dined where my new
gown was, at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and came back like a fool, and the Dean
of Carlisle has sat with me till eleven. Lord Oxford has not the staff
yet.

29. I was this morning in town by ten, though it was shaving-day, and
went to the Secretary about some affairs, then visited the Duke and
Duchess of Ormond; but the latter was dressing to go out, and I could
not see her. My Lord Oxford had the staff given him this morning; so now
I must call him Lord Oxford no more, but Lord Treasurer: I hope he will
stick there: this is twice he has changed his name this week; and I
heard to-day in the City (where I dined) that he will very soon have the
Garter.--Pr'ythee, do not you observe how strangely I have changed my
company and manner of living? I never go to a coffee-house; you hear no
more of Addison, Steele, Henley, Lady Lucy, Mrs. Finch,(7) Lord Somers,
Lord Halifax, etc. I think I have altered for the better. Did I tell you
the Archbishop of Dublin has writ me a long letter of a squabble in your
town about choosing a Mayor, and that he apprehended some censure for
the share he had in it?(8) I have not heard anything of it here; but I
shall not be always able to defend him. We hear your Bishop Hickman is
dead;(9) but nobody here will do anything for me in Ireland; so they
may die as fast or slow as they please.--Well, you are constant to your
deans, and your Stoyte, and your Walls. Walls will have her tea soon;
Parson Richardson is either going or gone to Ireland, and has it with
him. I hear Mr. Lewis has two letters for me: I could not call for them
to-day, but will to-morrow; and perhaps one of them may be from our
little MD, who knows, man? who can tell? Many a more unlikely thing has
happened.--Pshaw, I write so plaguy little, I can hardly see it myself.
WRITE BIGGER, SIRRAH(10) Presto. No, but I won't. Oh, you are a saucy
rogue, Mr. Presto, you are so impudent. Come, dear rogues, let Presto go
to sleep; I have been with the Dean, and 'tis near twelve.

30. I am so hot and lazy after my morning's walk, that I loitered at
Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, where my best gown and periwig are, and out of mere
listlessness dine there very often; so I did to-day; but I got little
MD's letter, N.15 (you see, sirrahs, I remember to tell the number),
from Mr. Lewis, and I read it in a closet they lend me at Mrs. Van's;
and I find Stella is a saucy rogue and a great writer, and can write
finely still when her hand is in, and her pen good. When I came here
to-night, I had a mighty mind to go swim after I was cool, for my
lodging is just by the river; and I went down with only my nightgown and
slippers on at eleven, but came up again; however, one of these nights I
will venture.

31. I was so hot this morning with my walk, that I resolve to do so
no more during this violent burning wea