ill this week; and sent to me
early this morning to have prayers, which you know is the last thing. I
found the doctors and all in despair about him. I read prayers to him,
found he had settled all things; and, when I came out, the nurse asked
me whether I thought it possible he could live; for the doctors thought
not. I said, I believed he would live; for I found the seeds of life
in him, which I observe seldom fail (and I found them in poor, dearest
Stella, when she was ill many years ago); and to-night I was with him
again, and he was mightily recovered, and I hope he will do well, and
the doctor approved my reasons; but, if he should die, I should come off
scurvily. The Secretary of State (Mr. St. John) sent to me to dine with
him; Mr. Harley and Lord Peterborow dined there too; and at night came
Lord Rivers. Lord Peterborow goes to Vienna in a day or two: he has
promised to make me write to him. Mr. Harley went away at six; but we
stayed till seven. I took the Secretary aside, and complained to him
of Mr. Harley, that he had got the Queen to grant the First-Fruits,
promised to bring me to her, and get her letter to the bishops of
Ireland; but the last part he had not done in six weeks, and I was in
danger to lose reputation, etc. He took the matter right, desired me to
be with him on Sunday morning, and promises me to finish the affair in
four days; so I shall know in a little time what I have to trust
to.--It is nine o'clock, and I must go study, you little rogues; and so
good-night, etc.

30. Morning. The weather grows cold, you sauceboxes. Sir Andrew
Fountaine, they bring me word, is better. I will go rise, for my hands
are starving while I write in bed. Night. Now Sir Andrew Fountaine is
recovering, he desires to be at ease; for I called in the morning to
read prayers, but he had given orders not to be disturbed. I have lost
a legacy by his living; for he told me he had left me a picture and some
books, etc. I called to see my quondam neighbour Ford (do you know what
quondam is, though?), and he engaged me to dine with him; for he always
dines at home on Opera-days. I came home at six, writ to the Archbishop,
then studied till past eleven, and stole to bed, to write to MD these
few lines, to let you know I am in good health at the present writing
hereof, and hope in God MD is so too. I wonder I never write politics to
you: I could make you the profoundest politician in all the lane.--Well,
but when shall we answer this letter, No. 8 of MD's? Not till next year,
faith. O Lord--bo--but that will be a Monday next. Cod's-so, is it?
and so it is: never saw the like.--I made a pun t'other day to Ben
Portlack(11) about a pair of drawers. Poh, said he, that's mine a--- all
over. Pray, pray, Dingley, let me go sleep; pray, pray, Stella, let me
go slumber; and put out my wax-candle.

31. Morning. It is now seven, and I have got a fire, but am writing abed
in my bed-chamber. 'Tis not shaving-day, so I shall be ready early to
go before church to Mr. St. John; and to-morrow I will answer our MD's
letter.

     Would you answer MD's letter,
     On New Year's Day you'll do it better;
     For, when the year with MD 'gins,
     It without MD never lins.

(These proverbs have always old words in them; lins is leave off.)

     But, if on New Year you write nones,
     MD then will bang your bones.

But Patrick says I must rise.--Night. I was early this morning with
Secretary St. John, and gave him a memorial to get the Queen's letter
for the First-Fruits, who has promised to do it in a very few days. He
told me he had been with the Duke of Marlborough, who was lamenting his
former wrong steps in joining with the Whigs, and said he was worn out
with age, fatigues, and misfortunes. I swear it pitied me; and I really
think they will not do well in too much mortifying that man, although
indeed it is his own fault. He is covetous as hell, and ambitious as the
Prince of it: he would fain have been General for life, and has broken
all endeavours for peace, to keep his greatness and get money. He told
the Queen he was neither covetous nor ambitious. She said if she could
have conveniently turned about, she would have laughed, and could hardly
forbear it in his face. He fell in with all the abominable measures of
the late Ministry, because they gratified him for their own designs.
Yet he has been a successful General, and I hope he will continue his
command. O Lord, smoke the politics to MD! Well; but, if you like them,
I will scatter a little now and then, and mine are all fresh from the
chief hands. Well, I dined with Mr. Harley, and came away at six: there
was much company, and I was not merry at all. Mr. Harley made me read a
paper of verses of Prior's. I read them plain, without any fine manner;
and Prior swore, I should never read any of his again; but he would be
revenged, and read some of mine as bad. I excused myself, and said I
was famous for reading verses the worst in the world; and that everybody
snatched them from me when I offered to begin. So we laughed.--Sir
Andrew Fountaine still continues ill. He is plagued with some sort