, and whispered me
that he began to doubt about Sterne's business; I told him he would find
he was in the wrong. I sat two or three hours at Lord Treasurer's; he
rallied me sufficiently upon my refusing to take him into our Club, and
told a judge who was with us that my name was Thomas Swift. I had a mind
to prevent Sir H. Belasyse(5) going to Spain, who is a most covetous
cur, and I fell a railing against avarice, and turned it so that he
smoked me, and named Belasyse. I went on, and said it was a shame
to send him; to which he agreed, but desired I would name some who
understood business, and do not love money, for he could not find them.
I said there was something in a Treasurer different from other men; that
we ought not to make a man a Bishop who does not love divinity, or a
General who does not love war; and I wondered why the Queen would make a
man Lord Treasurer who does not love money. He was mightily pleased with
what I said. He was talking of the First-Fruits of England, and I took
occasion to tell him that I would not for a thousand pounds anybody but
he had got them for Ireland, who got them for England too. He bid me
consider what a thousand pounds was; I said I would have him to know I
valued a thousand pounds as little as he valued a million.--Is it not
silly to write all this? but it gives you an idea what our conversation
is with mixed company. I have taken a lodging in Suffolk Street, and go
to it on Thursday; and design to walk the Park and the town, to supply
my walking here: yet I will walk here sometimes too, in a visit now and
then to the Dean.(6) When I was almost at home, Patrick told me he had
two letters for me, and gave them to me in the dark, yet I could see one
of them was from saucy MD. I went to visit the Dean for half an hour;
and then came home, and first read the other letter, which was from the
Bishop of Clogher, who tells me the Archbishop of Dublin mentioned in a
full assembly of the clergy the Queen's granting the First-Fruits, said
it was done by the Lord Treasurer, and talked much of my merit in it:
but reading yours I find nothing of that: perhaps the Bishop lies, out
of a desire to please me. I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh. Well, sirrahs,
you are gone to Wexford; but I'll follow you.

4. Sterne came to me again this morning, to advise about reasons and
memorials he is drawing up; and we went to town by water together; and
having nothing to do, I stole into the City to an instrument of mine,
and then went to see poor Patty Rolt,(7) who has been in town these
two months with a cousin of hers. Her life passes with boarding in some
country town as cheap as she can, and, when she runs out, shifting to
some cheaper place, or coming to town for a month. If I were rich, I
would ease her, which a little thing would do. Some months ago I sent
her a guinea, and it patched up twenty circumstances. She is now going
to Berkhamstead in Hertfordshire. It has rained and hailed prodigiously
to-day, with some thunder. This is the last night I lie at Chelsea; and
I got home early, and sat two hours with the Dean, and ate victuals,
having had a very scurvy dinner. I'll answer your letter when I come to
live in town. You shall have a fine London answer: but first I will go
sleep, and dream of MD.

London, July 5. This day I left Chelsea for good (that's a genteel
phrase), and am got into Suffolk Street. I dined to-day at our Society,
and we are adjourned for a month, because most of us go into the
country: we dined at Lord Keeper's with young Harcourt, and Lord Keeper
was forced to sneak off, and dine with Lord Treasurer, who had invited
the Secretary and me to dine with him; but we scorned to leave our
company, as George Granville did, whom we have threatened to expel:
however, in the evening I went to Lord Treasurer, and, among other
company, found a couple of judges with him; one of them, Judge
Powell,(8) an old fellow with grey hairs, was the merriest old gentleman
I ever saw, spoke pleasant things, and laughed and chuckled till he
cried again. I stayed till eleven, because I was not now to walk to
Chelsea.

6. An ugly rainy day. I was to visit Mrs. Barton, then called at Mrs.
Vanhomrigh's, where Sir Andrew Fountaine and the rain kept me to dinner;
and there did I loiter all the afternoon, like a fool, out of perfect
laziness, and the weather not permitting me to walk: but I'll do so no
more. Are your waters at Wexford good in this rain? I long to hear how
you are established there, how and whom you visit, what is your lodging,
what are your entertainments. You are got far southwards; but I think
you must eat no fruit while you drink the waters. I ate some Kentish
cherries t'other day, and I repent it already; I have felt my head a
little disordered. We had not a hot day all June, or since, which I
reckon a mighty happiness. Have you left a direction with Reading for
Wexford? I will, as I said, direct this to Curry's, and the next to
Reading; or suppose I send this at a venture straight to Wexford? It
would vex me to have it miscarry. I had a letter to-night from Parvisol,
that White has paid me most 