of these preferments was about 230 pounds a year, an
income which Miss Waring seems to have thought enough to justify him in
marrying. Swift's reply to the lady whom he had "singled out at first
from the rest of women" could only have been written with the intention
of breaking off the connection, and accordingly we hear no more of poor
Varina.

At Laracor, a mile or two from Trim, and twenty miles from Dublin, Swift
ministered to a congregation of about fifteen persons, and had abundant
leisure for cultivating his garden, making a canal (after the Dutch
fashion of Moor Park), planting willows, and rebuilding the vicarage. As
chaplain to Lord Berkeley, he spent much of his time in Dublin. He was
on intimate terms with Lady Berkeley and her daughters, one of whom is
best known by her married name of Lady Betty Germaine; and through them
he had access to the fashionable society of Dublin. When Lord Berkeley
returned to England in April 1701, Swift, after taking his Doctor's
degree at Dublin, went with him, and soon afterwards published,
anonymously, a political pamphlet, A Discourse on the Contests and
Dissentions in Athens and Rome. When he returned to Ireland in September
he was accompanied by Stella--to give Esther Johnson the name by which
she is best known--and her friend Mrs. Dingley. Stella's fortune was
about 1500 pounds, and the property Temple had left her was in County
Wicklow. Swift, very much for his "own satisfaction, who had few
friends or acquaintance in Ireland," persuaded Stella--now twenty years
old--that living was cheaper there than in England, and that a better
return was obtainable on money. The ladies took his advice, and made
Ireland their home. At first they felt themselves strangers in Dublin;
"the adventure looked so like a frolic," Swift says, "the censure held
for some time as if there were a secret history in such a removal: which
however soon blew off by her excellent conduct." Swift took every
step that was possible to avoid scandal. When he was away, the ladies
occupied his rooms; when he returned, they went into their own lodgings.
When he was absent, they often stopped at the vicarage at Laracor, but
if he were there, they moved to Trim, where they visited the vicar, Dr.
Raymond, or lived in lodgings in the town or neighbourhood. Swift was
never with Stella except in the presence of a third person, and in 1726
he said that he had not seen her in a morning "these dozen years, except
once or twice in a journey."

During a visit to England in the winter of 1703-4 we find Swift in
correspondence with the Rev. William Tisdall, a Dublin incumbent whom he
had formerly known at Belfast. Tisdall was on friendly terms with Stella
and Mrs. Dingley, and Swift sent messages to them through him. "Pray put
them upon reading," he wrote, "and be always teaching something to
Mrs. Johnson, because she is good at comprehending, remembering and
retaining." But the correspondence soon took a different turn. Tisdall
paid his addresses to Stella, and charged Swift with opposing his suit.
Tisdall's letters are missing, but Swift's reply of April 20, 1704,
puts things sufficiently clearly. "My conjecture is," he says, "that
you think I obstructed your inclinations to please my own, and that my
intentions were the same with yours. In answer to all which I will, upon
my conscience and honour, tell you the naked truth. First, I think I
have said to you before that, if my fortunes and humour served me to
think of that state, I should certainly, among all persons upon earth,
make your choice; because I never saw that person whose conversation I
entirely valued but hers; this was the utmost I ever gave way to. And
secondly, I must assure you sincerely that this regard of mine never
once entered into my head to be an impediment to you." He had thought
Tisdall not rich enough to marry; "but the objection of your fortune
being removed, I declare I have no other; nor shall any consideration
of my own misfortune, in losing so good a friend and companion as her,
prevail on me, against her interest and settlement in the world, since
it is held so necessary and convenient a thing for ladies to marry, and
that time takes off from the lustre of virgins in all other eyes but
mine. I appeal to my letters to herself whether I was your friend or not
in the whole concern, though the part I designed to act in it was purely
passive." He had even thought "it could not be decently broken," without
disadvantage to the lady's credit, since he supposed it was known to the
town; and he had always spoken of her in a manner far from discouraging.
Though he knew many ladies of rank, he had "nowhere met with an humour,
a wit, or conversation so agreeable, a better portion of good sense, or
a truer judgment of men or things." He envied Tisdall his prudence and
temper, and love of peace and settlement, "the reverse of which has been
the great uneasiness of my life, and is likely to continue so."

This letter has been quoted at some length because of its great
importance. It is obviously capable of various interpretations, and
some, like Dr. Johnson, h