 and so, madams both,
goodnight, etc.

19. I dined to-day with poor Lord Mountjoy, who is ill of the gout; and
this evening I christened our coffee-man Elliot's(15) child, where the
rogue had a most noble supper, and Steele and I sat among some scurvy
company over a bowl of punch; so that I am come home late, young women,
and can't stay to write to little rogues.

20. I loitered at home, and dined with Sir Andrew Fountaine at his
lodging, and then came home: a silly day.

21. I was visiting all this morning, and then went to the Secretary's
office, and found Mr. Harley, with whom I dined; and Secretary St. John,
etc., and Harley promised in a very few days to finish what remains
of my business. Prior was of the company, and we all dine at the
Secretary's to-morrow. I saw Stella's mother this morning: she came
early, and we talked an hour. I wish you would propose to Lady Giffard
to take the three hundred pounds out of her hands, and give her common
interest for life, and security that you will pay her: the Bishop of
Clogher, or any friend, would be security for you, if you gave them
counter-security; and it may be argued that it will pass better to be
in your hands than hers, in case of mortality, etc. Your mother says,
if you write, she will second it; and you may write to your mother, and
then it will come from her. She tells me Lady Giffard has a mind to see
me, by her discourse; but I told her what to say, with a vengeance. She
told Lady Giffard she was going to see me: she looks extremely well. I
am writing(16) in my bed like a tiger; and so good-night, etc.

22. I dined with Secretary St. John; and Lord Dartmouth, who is t'other
Secretary, dined with us, and Lord Orrery(17) and Prior, etc. Harley
called, but could not dine with us, and would have had me away while I
was at dinner; but I did not like the company he was to have. We stayed
till eight, and I called at the Coffee-house, and looked where the
letters lie; but no letter directed for Mr. Presto: at last I saw a
letter to Mr. Addison, and it looked like a rogue's hand; so I made the
fellow give it me, and opened it before him, and saw three letters all
for myself: so, truly, I put them in my pocket, and came home to my
lodging. Well, and so you shall hear: well, and so I found one of
them in Dingley's hand, and t'other in Stella's, and the third in
Domville's.(18) Well, so you shall hear; so, said I to myself, What now,
two letters from MD together? But I thought there was something in the
wind; so I opened one, and I opened t'other; and so you shall hear, one
was from Walls. Well, but t'other was from our own dear MD; yes it was.
O faith, have you received my seventh, young women, already? Then I must
send this to-morrow, else there will be old(19) doings at our house,
faith.--Well, I won't answer your letter in this: no, faith, catch me
at that, and I never saw the like. Well; but as to Walls, tell him
(with service to him and wife, etc.) that I have no imagination of Mr.
Pratt's(20) losing his place: and while Pratt continues, Clements is in
no danger; and I have already engaged Lord Hyde(21) he speaks of, for
Pratt and twenty others; but, if such a thing should happen, I will
do what I can. I have above ten businesses of other people's now on my
hands, and, I believe, shall miscarry in half. It is your sixth I now
have received. I writ last post to the Bishop of Clogher again. Shall I
send this to-morrow? Well, I will, to oblige MD. Which would you rather,
a short letter every week, or a long one every fortnight? A long one;
well, it shall be done, and so good-night. Well, but is this a long one?
No, I warrant you: too long for naughty girls.

23. I only ask, have you got both the ten pounds, or only the first; I
hope you mean both. Pray be good housewives; and I beg you to walk when
you can, for health. Have you the horse in town? and do you ever ride
him? how often? Confess. Ahhh, sirrah, have I caught you? Can you
contrive to let Mrs. Fenton(22) know, that the request she has made me
in her letter I will use what credit I have to bring about, although I
hear it is very difficult, and I doubt I shall not succeed? Cox is not
to be your Chancellor: all joined against him. I have been supping with
Lord Peterborow at his house, with Prior, Lewis, and Dr. Freind. 'Tis
the ramblingest lying rogue on earth. Dr. Raymond is come to town: 'tis
late, and so I bid you good-night.

24. I tell you, pretty management! Ned Southwell told me the other day
he had a letter from the bishops of Ireland, with an address to the Duke
of Ormond, to intercede with the Queen to take off the First-Fruits. I
dined with him to-day, and saw it, with another letter to him from the
Bishop of Kildare,(23) to call upon me for the papers, etc.; and I had
last post one from the Archbishop of Dublin, telling me the reason of
this proceeding; that, upon hearing the Duke of Ormond was declared Lord
Lieutenant, they met; and the bishops were for this project, and talked
coldly of my being solicitor, as one that was favoured by t'other party,
etc., but desired that I would still solicit.(24) Now t