d to defend him, but if they do, it may end in some severer
votes. A gentleman, who was just now with him, tells me he is much cast
down, and fallen away; but he is positive, if he has but ten friends in
the House, that they shall defend him to the utmost, and endeavour to
prevent the least censure upon him, which I think cannot be, since the
bribery is manifest. Sir Solomon Medina(14) paid him six thousand pounds
a year to have the employment of providing bread for the army, and
the Duke owns it in his letter to the Commissioners of Accounts. I was
to-night at Lord Masham's: Lord Dupplin took out my new little pamphlet,
and the Secretary read a great deal of it to Lord Treasurer: they all
commended it to the skies, and so did I, and they began a health to the
author. But I doubt Lord Treasurer suspected; for he said, "This is
Mr. Davenant's style," which is his cant when he suspects me.(15) But
I carried the matter very well. Lord Treasurer put the pamphlet in his
pocket to read at home. I'll answer your letter to-morrow.

24. The Secretary made me promise to dine with him today, after the
Parliament was up: I said I would come; but I dined at my usual time,
knowing the House would sit late on this great affair. I dined at a
tavern with Mr. Domville and another gentleman; I have not done so
before these many months. At ten this evening I went to the Secretary,
but he was not come home: I sat with his lady till twelve, then came
away; and he just came as I was gone, and he sent to my lodgings, but
I would not go back; and so I know not how things have passed, but hope
all is well; and I will tell you to-morrow day. It is late, etc.

25. The Secretary sent to me this morning to know whether we should
dine together. I went to him, and there I learned that the question
went against the Duke of Marlborough, by a majority of a hundred; so the
Ministry is mighty well satisfied, and the Duke will now be able to
do no hurt. The Secretary and I, and Lord Masham, etc., dined with
Lieutenant-General Withers,(16) who is just going to look after the army
in Flanders: the Secretary and I left them a little after seven, and
I am come home, and will now answer your letter, because this goes
to-morrow: let me see--The box at Chester; oh, burn that box, and
hang that Sterne; I have desired one to inquire for it who went toward
Ireland last Monday, but I am in utter despair of it. No, I was not
splenetic; you see what plunges the Court has been at to set all right
again. And that Duchess is not out yet, and may one day cause more
mischief. Somerset shows all about a letter from the Queen, desiring
him to let his wife continue with her. Is not that rare! I find Dingley
smelled a rat; because the Whigs are UPISH; but if ever I hear that word
again, I'll UPPISH you. I am glad you got your rasp safe and sound; does
Stella like her apron? Your critics about guarantees of succession are
puppies; that's an answer to the objection. The answerers here made the
same objection, but it is wholly wrong. I am of your opinion that Lord
Marlborough is used too hardly: I have often scratched out passages
from papers and pamphlets sent me, before they were printed, because I
thought them too severe. But he is certainly a vile man, and has no sort
of merit beside the military. The Examiners are good for little: I would
fain have hindered the severity of the two or three last, but could
not. I will either bring your papers over, or leave them with Tooke, for
whose honesty I will engage. And I think it is best not to venture them
with me at sea. Stella is a prophet, by foretelling so very positively
that all would be well. Duke of Ormond speak against peace? No,
simpleton, he is one of the staunchest we have for the Ministry. Neither
trouble yourself about the printer: he appeared the first day of the
term, and is to appear when summoned again; but nothing else will come
of it. Lord Chief-Justice(17) is cooled since this new settlement. No;
I will not split my journals in half; I will write but once a fortnight:
but you may do as you will; which is, read only half at once, and
t'other half next week. So now your letter is answered. (P--- on these
blots.) What must I say more? I will set out in March, if there be a fit
of fine weather; unless the Ministry desire me to stay till the end of
the session, which may be a month longer; but I believe they will not:
for I suppose the peace will be made, and they will have no further
service for me. I must make my canal fine this summer, as fine as I can.
I am afraid I shall see great neglects among my quicksets. I hope the
cherry-trees on the river walk are fine things now. But no more of this.

26. I forgot to finish this letter this morning, and am come home so
late I must give it to the bellman; but I would have it go to-night,
lest you should think there is anything in the story of my being
arrested in an action of twenty thousand pounds by Lord Marlborough,
which I hear is in Dyer's Letter,(18) and, consequently, I suppose, gone
to Ireland. Farewell, dearest MD, etc. etc.




LETTER 40.

LONDON, Jan. 26, 1711-12.

I h