proposed an expedient to the assembly, whereof he had indeed
borrowed the hint from me.  “He approved of the tradition mentioned by
the honourable member who spoke before, and affirmed, that the two
_Yahoos_ said to be seen first among them, had been driven thither over
the sea; that coming to land, and being forsaken by their companions,
they retired to the mountains, and degenerating by degrees, became in
process of time much more savage than those of their own species in the
country whence these two originals came.  The reason of this assertion
was, that he had now in his possession a certain wonderful _Yahoo_
(meaning myself) which most of them had heard of, and many of them had
seen.  He then related to them how he first found me; that my body was
all covered with an artificial composure of the skins and hairs of other
animals; that I spoke in a language of my own, and had thoroughly learned
theirs; that I had related to him the accidents which brought me thither;
that when he saw me without my covering, I was an exact _Yahoo_ in every
part, only of a whiter colour, less hairy, and with shorter claws.  He
added, how I had endeavoured to persuade him, that in my own and other
countries, the _Yahoos_ acted as the governing, rational animal, and held
the _Houyhnhnms_ in servitude; that he observed in me all the qualities
of a _Yahoo_, only a little more civilized by some tincture of reason,
which, however, was in a degree as far inferior to the _Houyhnhnm_ race,
as the _Yahoos_ of their country were to me; that, among other things, I
mentioned a custom we had of castrating _Houyhnhnms_ when they were
young, in order to render them tame; that the operation was easy and
safe; that it was no shame to learn wisdom from brutes, as industry is
taught by the ant, and building by the swallow (for so I translate the
word _lyhannh_, although it be a much larger fowl); that this invention
might be practised upon the younger _Yahoos_ here, which besides
rendering them tractable and fitter for use, would in an age put an end
to the whole species, without destroying life; that in the mean time the
_Houyhnhnms_ should be exhorted to cultivate the breed of asses, which,
as they are in all respects more valuable brutes, so they have this
advantage, to be fit for service at five years old, which the others are
not till twelve.”

This was all my master thought fit to tell me, at that time, of what
passed in the grand council.  But he was pleased to conceal one
particular, which related personally to myself, whereof I soon felt the
unhappy effect, as the reader will know in its proper place, and whence I
date all the succeeding misfortunes of my life.

The _Houyhnhnms_ have no letters, and consequently their knowledge is all
traditional.  But there happening few events of any moment among a people
so well united, naturally disposed to every virtue, wholly governed by
reason, and cut off from all commerce with other nations, the historical
part is easily preserved without burdening their memories.  I have
already observed that they are subject to no diseases, and therefore can
have no need of physicians.  However, they have excellent medicines,
composed of herbs, to cure accidental bruises and cuts in the pastern or
frog of the foot, by sharp stones, as well as other maims and hurts in
the several parts of the body.

They calculate the year by the revolution of the sun and moon, but use no
subdivisions into weeks.  They are well enough acquainted with the
motions of those two luminaries, and understand the nature of eclipses;
and this is the utmost progress of their astronomy.

In poetry, they must be allowed to excel all other mortals; wherein the
justness of their similes, and the minuteness as well as exactness of
their descriptions, are indeed inimitable.  Their verses abound very much
in both of these, and usually contain either some exalted notions of
friendship and benevolence or the praises of those who were victors in
races and other bodily exercises.  Their buildings, although very rude
and simple, are not inconvenient, but well contrived to defend them from
all injuries of cold and heat.  They have a kind of tree, which at forty
years old loosens in the root, and falls with the first storm: it grows
very straight, and being pointed like stakes with a sharp stone (for the
_Houyhnhnms_ know not the use of iron), they stick them erect in the
ground, about ten inches asunder, and then weave in oat straw, or
sometimes wattles, between them.  The roof is made after the same manner,
and so are the doors.

The _Houyhnhnms_ use the hollow part, between the pastern and the hoof of
their fore-foot, as we do our hands, and this with greater dexterity than
I could at first imagine.  I have seen a white mare of our family thread
a needle (which I lent her on purpose) with that joint.  They milk their
cows, reap their oats, and do all the work which requires hands, in the
same manner.  They have a kind of hard flints, which, by grinding against
other stones, they form into instruments, that serve instead of wedges,
axes, and hammers.  With tools m