come; so I am in Christian circumstances: I shall hardly
commit such a frolic again. I just crept out to Mrs. Van's, and dined,
and stayed there the afternoon: it has rained all this day. Windsor is
a delicious place: I never saw it before, except for an hour about
seventeen years ago. Walls has been here in my absence, I suppose, to
take his leave; for he designed not to stay above five days in London.
He says he and his wife will come here for some months next year; and,
in short, he dares not stay now for fear of her.

24. I dined to-day with a hedge(2) friend in the City; and Walls
overtook me in the street, and told me he was just getting on horseback
for Chester. He has as much curiosity as a cow: he lodged with his horse
in Aldersgate Street: he has bought his wife a silk gown, and himself a
hat. And what are you doing? what is poor MD doing now? how do you pass
your time at Wexford? how do the waters agree with you? Let Presto
know soon; for Presto longs to know, and must know. Is not Madam Proby
curious company? I am afraid this rainy weather will spoil your waters.
We have had a great deal of wet these three days. Tell me all the
particulars of Wexford: the place, the company, the diversions, the
victuals, the wants, the vexations. Poor Dingley never saw such a place
in her life; sent all over the town for a little parsley to a boiled
chicken, and it was not to be had; the butter is stark naught, except an
old English woman's; and it is such a favour to get a pound from her now
and then! I am glad you carried down your sheets with you, else you must
have lain in sackcloth. O Lord!

25. I was this forenoon with Mr. Secretary at his office, and helped
to hinder a man of his pardon, who is condemned for a rape. The Under
Secretary was willing to save him, upon an old notion that a woman
cannot be ravished; but I told the Secretary he could not pardon him
without a favourable report from the judge; besides, he was a fiddler,
and consequently a rogue, and deserved hanging for some thing else; and
so he shall swing. What, I must stand up for the honour of the fair sex!
'Tis true the fellow had lain with her a hundred times before, but
what care I for that! What, must a woman be ravished because she is
a whore?--The Secretary and I go on Saturday to Windsor for a week.
I dined with Lord Treasurer, and stayed with him till past ten. I was
to-day at his levee, where I went against my custom, because I had a
mind to do a good office for a gentleman: so I talked with him before
my lord, that he might see me, and then found occasion to recommend him
this afternoon. I was forced to excuse my coming to the levee, that I
did it to see the sight; for he was going to chide me away: I had never
been there but once, and that was long before he was Treasurer. The
rooms were all full, and as many Whigs as Tories. He whispered me a jest
or two, and bid me come to dinner. I left him but just now; and 'tis
late.

26. Mr. Addison and I have at last met again. I dined with him and
Steele to-day at young Jacob Tonson's. The two Jacobs(3) think it is I
who have made the Secretary take from them the printing of the Gazette,
which they are going to lose, and Ben Tooke and another(4) are to have
it. Jacob came to me the other day, to make his court; but I told him it
was too late, and that it was not my doing. I reckon they will lose it
in a week or two. Mr. Addison and I talked as usual, and as if we had
seen one another yesterday; and Steele and I were very easy, though
I writ him lately a biting letter, in answer to one of his, where he
desired me to recommend a friend of his to Lord Treasurer. Go, get you
gone to your waters, sirrah. Do they give you a stomach? Do you eat
heartily?--We have had much rain to-day and yesterday.

27. I dined to-day in the City, and saw poor Patty Rolt, and gave her
a pistole to help her a little forward against she goes to board in the
country. She has but eighteen pounds a year to live on, and is forced
to seek out for cheap places. Sometimes they raise their price, and
sometimes they starve her, and then she is forced to shift. Patrick the
puppy put too much ink in my standish,(5) and, carrying too many things
together, I spilled it on my paper and floor. The town is dull, wet,
and empty; Wexford is worth two of it; I hope so at least, and that poor
little MD finds it so. I reckon upon going to Windsor to-morrow with Mr.
Secretary, unless he changes his mind, or some other business prevents
him. I shall stay there a week, I hope.

28. Morning. Mr. Secretary sent me word he will call at my lodgings by
two this afternoon, to take me to Windsor; so I must dine nowhere; and I
promised Lord Treasurer to dine with him to-day; but I suppose we shall
dine at Windsor at five, for we make but three hours there.(6) I am
going abroad, but have left Patrick to put up my things, and to be sure
to be at home half an hour before two.--Windsor, at night. We did not
leave London till three, and dined here between six and seven; at nine
I left the company, and went to see Lord Treasurer, who is just come. I
chid him for coming 