 name.


"LONDON, May 16, 1713.

"I appoint Mr. Isaiah Parvisol and Mr. to set and let the tithes of the
Deanery of St. Patrick's for this present year. In witness whereof, I
hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and year above written.

                                 (JONAT. SWIFT."(6))


"LONDON, May 16, 1713.

"I do hereby appoint Mr. Isaiah Parvisol my proctor, to set and let
the tithes of the Deanery of St. Patrick's. In witness whereof, I have
hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and year above written.

                                  JONAT. SWIFT."




LETTER 65.(1)

CHESTER, June 6, 1713.

I am come here after six days. I set out on Monday last, and got here
to-day about eleven in the morning. A noble rider, fais! and all the
ships and people went off yesterday with a rare wind. This was told
me, to my comfort, upon my arrival. Having not used riding these three
years, made me terrible weary; yet I resolve on Monday to set out for
Holyhead, as weary as I am. 'Tis good for my health, mam. When I came
here, I found MD's letter of the 26th of May sent down to me. Had you
writ a post sooner I might have brought some pins: but you were lazy,
and would not write your orders immediately, as I desired you. I will
come when God pleases; perhaps I may be with you in a week. I will be
three days going to Holyhead; I cannot ride faster, say hat oo will. I
am upon Stay-behind's mare. I have the whole inn to myself. I would fain
'scape this Holyhead journey; but I have no prospect of ships, and it
will be almost necessary I should be in Dublin before the 25th instant,
to take the oaths;(2) otherwise I must wait to a quarter sessions. I
will lodge as I can; therefore take no lodgings for me, to pay in my
absence. The poor Dean can't afford it. I spoke again to the Duke of
Ormond about Moimed for Raymond, and hope he may yet have it, for I laid
it strongly to the Duke, and gave him the Bishop of Meath's memorial.
I am sorry for Raymond's fistula; tell him so. I will speak to Lord
Treasurer about Mrs. South(3) to-morrow. Odso! I forgot; I thought I
had been in London. Mrs. Tisdall(4) is very big, ready to lie down. Her
husband is a puppy. Do his feet stink still? The letters to Ireland go
at so uncertain an hour, that I am forced to conclude. Farewell, MD, MD
MD FW FW FW ME ME ME ME.

     Lele lele
     lele logues and
     Ladies bose fair
     and slender.

(On flyleaf.)

I mightily approve Ppt's project of hanging the blind parson. When I
read that passage upon Chester walls, as I was coming into town, and
just received your letter, I said aloud--Agreeable B-tch.



NOTES.

These notes are referenced by 'Notes to the Introduction' or 'Letter
(number)', and the numbers in square brackets (thus -- (3)) in the body
of the Journal.



Notes to the Introduction.

1 Notes and Queries, Sixth Series, x. 287.

2 See letter from Swift to John Temple, February 1737. She was then
"quite sunk with years and unwieldliness."

3 Athenaeum, Aug. 8, 1891.

4 Journal, May 4, 1711.

5 Craik's Life of Swift, 269.

6 Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, pp. 189-96.

7 In 1730 he wrote, "Those who have been married may form juster
ideas of that estate than I can pretend to do" (Dr. Birkbeck Hill's
Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, p. 237).

8 Scott added a new incident which has become incorporated in the
popular conception of Swift's story. Delany is said to have met
Swift rushing out of Archbishop King's study, with a countenance of
distraction, immediately after the wedding. King, who was in tears,
said, "You have just met the most unhappy man on earth; but on the
subject of his wretchedness you must never ask a question." Will it be
believed that Scott--who rejects Delany's inference from this alleged
incident--had no better authority for it than "a friend of his
(Delany's) relict"?

9 This incident, for which there is probably some foundation of fact--we
cannot say how much--has been greatly expanded by Mrs. Woods in her
novel Esther Vanhomrigh. Unfortunately most of her readers cannot, of
course, judge exactly how far her story is a work of imagination.

10 In October Swift explained that he had been in the country "partly to
see a lady of my old acquaintance, who was extremely ill" (Unpublished
Letters of Dean Swift, p. 198).

11 There is a story that shortly before her death Swift begged Stella to
allow herself to be publicly announced as his wife, but that she replied
that it was then too late. The versions given by Delany and Theophilus
Swift differ considerably, while Sheridan alters the whole thing by
representing Swift as brutally refusing to comply with Stella's last
wishes.

12 There has also been the absurd suggestion that the impediment was
Swift's knowledge that both he and Stella were the illegitimate children
of Sir William Temple--a theory which is absolutely disproved by known
facts.

13 It is curious to note the intimate knowledge of some of Swift's
peculiarities which was possessed by the hostile writer of a pamphlet
called A Hue and Cry after Dr. S---t, published in 1714. That piece
consists, for the most part, of extrac