stuff, unless I send you my verses; and some I
dare not; and those on the "Shower in London" I have sent to the Tatler,
and you may see them in Ireland. I fancy you will smoke me in the Tatler
I am going to write; for I believe I have told you the hint. I had a
letter sent me tonight from Sir Matthew Dudley, and found it on my table
when I came in. Because it is extraordinary, I will transcribe it from
beginning to end. It is as follows: "Is the Devil in you? Oct. 13,
1710." I would have answered every particular passage in it, only I
wanted time. Here is enough for to-night, such as it is, etc.

14. Is that tobacco at the top of the paper,(18) or what? I do not
remember I slobbered. Lord, I dreamt of Stella, etc., so confusedly last
night, and that we saw Dean Bolton(19) and Sterne(20) go into a shop:
and she bid me call them to her, and they proved to be two parsons I
know not; and I walked without till she was shifting, and such stuff,
mixed with much melancholy and uneasiness, and things not as they should
be, and I know not how: and it is now an ugly gloomy morning.--At night.
Mr. Addison and I dined with Ned Southwell, and walked in the Park; and
at the Coffee-house I found a letter from the Bishop of Clogher, and
a packet from MD. I opened the Bishop's letter; but put up MD's, and
visited a lady just come to town; and am now got into bed, and going to
open your little letter: and God send I may find MD well, and happy, and
merry, and that they love Presto as they do fires. Oh, I will not open
it yet! yes I will! no I will not! I am going; I cannot stay till I turn
over.(21) What shall I do? My fingers itch; and now I have it in my left
hand; and now I will open it this very moment.--I have just got it, and
am cracking the seal, and cannot imagine what is in it; I fear only some
letter from a bishop, and it comes too late; I shall employ nobody's
credit but my own. Well, I see though-- Pshaw, 'tis from Sir Andrew
Fountaine. What, another! I fancy that's from Mrs. Barton;(22) she told
me she would write to me; but she writes a better hand than this: I wish
you would inquire; it must be at Dawson's(23) office at the Castle.
I fear this is from Patty Rolt, by the scrawl. Well, I will read MD's
letter. Ah, no; it is from poor Lady Berkeley, to invite me to Berkeley
Castle this winter; and now it grieves my heart: she says, she hopes my
lord is in a fair way of recovery;(24) poor lady! Well, now I go to MD's
letter: faith, it is all right; I hoped it was wrong. Your letter, N.3,
that I have now received, is dated Sept. 26; and Manley's letter, that
I had five days ago, was dated Oct. 3, that's a fortnight difference:
I doubt it has lain in Steele's office, and he forgot. Well, there's
an end of that: he is turned out of his place;(25) and you must desire
those who send me packets, to enclose them in a paper directed to Mr.
Addison, at St. James's Coffee-house: not common letters, but packets:
the Bishop of Clogher may mention it to the Archbishop when he sees him.
As for your letter, it makes me mad: slidikins, I have been the best
boy in Christendom, and you come with your two eggs a penny.--Well; but
stay, I will look over my book: adad, I think there was a chasm between
my N.2 and N.3. Faith, I will not promise to write to you every week;
but I will write every night, and when it is full I will send it; that
will be once in ten days, and that will be often enough: and if you
begin to take up the way of writing to Presto, only because it is
Tuesday, a Monday bedad it will grow a task; but write when you have
a mind.--No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no--Agad, agad, agad, agad,
agad, agad; no, poor Stellakins.(26) Slids, I would the horse were in
your--chamber! Have not I ordered Parvisol to obey your directions about
him? And han't I said in my former letters that you may pickle him, and
boil him, if you will? What do you trouble me about your horses for?
Have I anything to do with them?--Revolutions a hindrance to me in
my business? Revolutions to me in my business? If it were not for
the revolutions, I could do nothing at all; and now I have all hopes
possible, though one is certain of nothing; but to-morrow I am to have
an answer, and am promised an effectual one. I suppose I have said
enough in this and a former letter how I stand with new people; ten
times better than ever I did with the old; forty times more caressed.
I am to dine to-morrow at Mr. Harley's; and if he continues as he has
begun, no man has been ever better treated by another. What you say
about Stella's mother, I have spoken enough to it already. I believe she
is not in town; for I have not yet seen her. My lampoon is cried up to
the skies; but nobody suspects me for it, except Sir Andrew Fountaine:
at least they say nothing of it to me. Did not I tell you of a great man
who received me very coldly?(27) That's he; but say nothing; 'twas
only a little revenge. I will remember to bring it over. The Bishop of
Clogher has smoked my Tatler,(28) about shortening of words, etc. But,
God So!(29) etc.

15. I will write plainer if I can remember it; for Stella must 