ace will certainly be ready by Thursday
fortnight; but our Plenipotentiaries were to blame that it was not done
already. They thought their powers were not full enough to sign the
peace, unless every Prince was ready, which cannot yet be; for Spain has
no Minister yet at Utrecht; but now ours have new orders. Nite MD.

25. Weather worse than ever; terrible rain all day, but I was resolved
I would spend no more money. I went to an auction of pictures with Dr.
Pratt, and there met the Duke of Beaufort, who promised to come with me
to Court, but did not. So a coach I got, and went to Court, and did some
little business there, but was forced to go home; for oo must understand
I take a little physic over-night, which works me next day. Lady Orkney
is my physician. It is hiera picra,(9) two spoonfuls, devilish stuff!
I thought to have dined with Eltee, but would not, merely to save a
shilling; but I dined privately with a friend, and played at ombre, and
won six shillings. Here are several people of quality lately dead of
the smallpox. I have not yet seen Miss Ashe, but hear she is well. The
Bishop of Clogher has bought abundance of pictures, and Dr. Pratt has
got him very good pennyworths.(10) I can get no walks, the weather is so
bad. Is it so with oo, sollahs?... (11)

26. Though it was shaving-day, head and beard, yet I was out early to
see Lord Bolingbroke, and talk over affairs with him; and then I went to
the Duke of Ormond's, and so to Court, where the Ministers did not come,
because the Parliament was prorogued till this day fortnight. We had
terrible rain and hail to-day. Our Society met this day, but I left them
before seven, and went to Sir A(ndrew) F(ountaine), and played at ombre
with him and Sir Thomas Clarges, till ten, and then went to Sir Thomas
Hanmer. His wife, the Duchess of Grafton, left us after a little while,
and I stayed with him about an hour, upon some affairs, etc. Lord
Bolingbroke left us at the Society before I went; for there is an
express from Utrecht, but I know not yet what it contains; only I know
the Ministers expect the peace will be signed in a week, which is a week
before the session. Nite, MD.

27. Parnell's poem is mightily esteemed; but poetry sells ill. I am
plagued with that... (12) poor Harrison's mother; you would laugh to see
how cautious I am of paying her the 100 pounds I received for her son
from the Treasury. I have asked every creature I know whether I may do
it safely, yet durst not venture, till my Lord Keeper assured me there
was no danger. I have not paid her, but will in a day or two: though I
have a great mind to stay till Ppt sends me her opinion, because Ppt
is a great lawyer. I dined to-day with a mixture of people at a
Scotchman's, who made the invitation to Mr. Lewis and me, and has some
design upon us, which we know very well. I went afterwards to see a
famous moving picture,(13) and I never saw anything so pretty. You see a
sea ten miles wide, a town on t'other end, and ships sailing in the sea,
and discharging their cannon. You see a great sky, with moon and stars,
etc. I'm a fool. Nite, dee MD.

28. I had a mighty levee to-day. I deny myself to everybody, except
about half a dozen, and they were all here, and Mr. Addison was one, and
I had chocolate twice, which I don't like. Our rainy weather continues.
Coach-hire goes deep. I dined with Eltee and his Saturday company, as
usual, and could not get away till nine. Lord Peterborow was making long
harangues, and Eltee kept me in spite. Then I went to see the Bishop of
Ossory, who had engaged me in the morning; he is going to Ireland. The
Bishop of Killaloe(14) and Tom Leigh was with us. The latter had wholly
changed his style, by seeing how the bishops behaved themselves, and he
seemed to think me one of more importance than I really am. I put the
ill conduct of the bishops about the First-Fruits, with relation to
Eltee and me, strongly upon Killaloe, and showed how it had hindered me
from getting a better thing for them, called the Crown rents, which the
Queen had promised. He had nothing to say, but was humble, and desired
my interest in that and some other things. This letter is half done in a
week: I believe oo will have it next. Nite MD.

29. I have been employed in endeavouring to save one of your junior
Fellows,(15) who came over here for a dispensation from taking orders,
and, in soliciting it, has run out his time, and now his fellowship is
void, if the College pleases, unless the Queen suspends the execution,
and gives him time to take orders. I spoke to all the Ministers
yesterday about it; but they say the Queen is angry, and thought it
was a trick to deceive her; and she is positive, and so the man must be
ruined, for I cannot help him. I never saw him in my life; but the
case was so hard, I could not forbear interposing. Your Government
recommended him to the Duke of Ormond, and he thought they would
grant it; and by the time it was refused, the fellowship by rigour
is forfeited. I dined with Dr. Arbuthnot (one of my brothers) at his
lodgings in Chelsea, and was there at chapel; and the altar put me
in 