paper on t'other side of the leaf: one of these odd-come-shortly's
I'll consider, and so good-night.

13. Morning. I am to go trapesing with Lady Kerry(11) and Mrs. Pratt(12)
to see sights all this day: they engaged me yesterday morning at tea.
You hear the havoc making in the army: Meredith, Maccartney, and Colonel
Honeywood(13) are obliged to sell their commands at half-value, and
leave the army, for drinking destruction to the present Ministry, and
dressing up a hat on a stick, and calling it Harley; then drinking a
glass with one hand, and discharging a pistol with the other at the
maukin,(14) wishing it were Harley himself; and a hundred other such
pretty tricks, as inflaming their soldiers, and foreign Ministers,
against the late changes at Court. Cadogan(15) has had a little paring:
his mother(16) told me yesterday he had lost the place of Envoy; but I
hope they will go no further with him, for he was not at those mutinous
meetings.--Well, these saucy jades take up so much of my time with
writing to them in a morning; but, faith, I am glad to see you whenever
I can: a little snap and away; and so hold your tongue, for I must rise:
not a word, for your life. How nowww? So, very well; stay till I come
home, and then, perhaps, you may hear further from me. And where will
you go to-day, for I can't be with you for these ladies? It is a rainy,
ugly day. I'd have you send for Walls, and go to the Dean's; but don't
play small games when you lose. You'll be ruined by Manilio, Basto,
the queen, and two small trumps, in red.(17) I confess 'tis a good hand
against the player: but then there are Spadilio, Punto, the king, strong
trumps, against you, which, with one trump more, are three tricks ten
ace: for, suppose you play your Manilio--Oh, silly, how I prate, and
can't get away from this MD in a morning! Go, get you gone, dear naughty
girls, and let me rise. There, Patrick locked up my ink again the third
time last night: the rogue gets the better of me; but I will rise
in spite of you, sirrahs.--At night. Lady Kerry, Mrs. Pratt, Mrs.
Cadogan,(18) and I, in one coach; Lady Kerry's son(19) and his governor,
and two gentlemen, in another; maids, and misses and little master
(Lord Shelburne's(20) children, in a third, all hackneys, set out at ten
o'clock this morning from Lord Shelburne's house in Piccadilly to the
Tower, and saw all the sights, lions,(21) etc.; then to Bedlam;(22) then
dined at the chop-house behind the Exchange; then to Gresham College(23)
(but the keeper was not at home); and concluded the night at the
Puppet-show,(24) whence we came home safe at eight, and I left them. The
ladies were all in mobs(25) (how do you call it?), undrest; and it was
the rainiest day that ever dripped; and I am weary; and it is now past
eleven.

14. Stay, I'll answer some of your letter this morning in bed: let me
see; come and appear, little letter. Here I am, says he: and what
say you to Mrs. MD this morning fresh and fasting? Who dares think MD
negligent? I allow them a fortnight; and they give it me. I could fill
a letter in a week; but it is longer every day; and so I keep it a
fortnight, and then 'tis cheaper by one half. I have never been giddy,
dear Stella, since that morning: I have taken a whole box of pills,
and kecked(26) at them every night, and drank a pint of brandy at
mornings.--Oh then, you kept Presto's little birthday:(27) would to
God I had been with you! I forgot it, as I told you before. REdiculous,
madam? I suppose you mean rIdiculous: let me have no more of that; 'tis
the author of the Atalantis's(28) spelling. I have mended it in your
letter. And can Stella read this writing without hurting her dear eyes?
O, faith, I am afraid not. Have a care of those eyes, pray, pray, pretty
Stella.--'Tis well enough what you observe, that, if I writ better,
perhaps you would not read so well, being used to this manner; 'tis an
alphabet you are used to: you know such a pot-hook makes a letter; and
you know what letter, and so and so.--I'll swear he told me so, and that
they were long letters too; but I told him it was a gasconnade of
yours, etc. I am talking of the Bishop of Clogher, how he forgot. Turn
over.(29) I had not room on t'other side to say that, so I did it on
this: I fancy that's a good Irish blunder. Ah, why do not you go down to
Clogher, nautinautinautideargirls; I dare not say nauti without dear: O,
faith, you govern me. But, seriously, I'm sorry you don't go, as far as
I can judge at this distance. No, we would get you another horse; I will
make Parvisol get you one. I always doubted that horse of yours: prythee
sell him, and let it be a present to me. My heart aches when I think you
ride him. Order Parvisol to sell him, and that you are to return me the
money: I shall never be easy until he is out of your hands. Faith,
I have dreamt five or six times of horses stumbling since I had your
letter. If he can't sell him, let him run this winter. Faith, if I was
near you, I would whip your ---- to some tune, for your grave, saucy
answer about the Dean and Johnsonibus; I would, young women. And did the
Dean preach 