wo hours and forty minutes:
twenty miles are nothing here. I found a letter from the Archbishop of
Dublin, sent me the Lord knows how. He says some of the bishops
will hardly believe that Lord Treasurer got the Queen to remit the
First-Fruits before the Duke of Ormond was declared Lord Lieutenant, and
that the bishops have written a letter to Lord Treasurer to thank him.
He has sent me the address of the Convocation, ascribing, in good part,
that affair to the Duke, who had less share in it than MD; for if it
had not been for MD, I should not have been so good a solicitor. I dined
to-day in the City, about a little bit of mischief, with a printer.--I
found Mrs. Vanhomrigh all in combustion, squabbling with her rogue of
a landlord; she has left her house, and gone out of our neighbourhood
a good way. Her eldest daughter is come of age, and going to Ireland to
look after her fortune, and get it in her own hands.(9)

15. I dined to-day with Mrs. Van, who goes to-night to her new lodgings.
I went at six to see Lord Treasurer; but his company was gone, contrary
to custom, and he was busy, and I was forced to stay some time before I
could see him. We were together hardly an hour, and he went away, being
in haste. He desired me to dine with him on Friday, because there would
be a friend of his that I must see: my Lord Harley told me, when he was
gone, that it was Mrs. Masham his father meant, who is come to town to
lie-in, and whom I never saw, though her husband is one of our Society.
God send her a good time! her death would be a terrible thing.(10)--Do
you know that I have ventured all my credit with these great Ministers,
to clear some misunderstandings betwixt them; and if there be no breach,
I ought to have the merit of it. 'Tis a plaguy ticklish piece of work,
and a man hazards losing both sides. It is a pity the world does not
know my virtue.--I thought the clergy in Convocation in Ireland would
have given me thanks for being their solicitor; but I hear of no such
thing. Pray talk occasionally on that subject, and let me know what you
hear. Do you know the greatness of my spirit, that I value their thanks
not a rush, but at my return shall freely let all people know that it
was my Lord Treasurer's action, wherein the Duke of Ormond had no more
share than a cat? And so they may go whistle, and I'll go sleep.

16. I was this day in the City, and dined at Pontack's(11) with
Stratford, and two other merchants. Pontack told us, although his wine
was so good, he sold it cheaper than others; he took but seven shillings
a flask. Are not these pretty rates? The books he sent for from Hamburg
are come, but not yet got out of the custom-house. My library will be at
least double when I come back. I shall go to Windsor again on Saturday,
to meet our Society, who are to sup at Mr. Secretary's; but I believe
I shall return on Monday, and then I will answer your letter, that lies
here safe underneath;--I see it; lie still: I will answer you when the
ducks have eaten up the dirt.

17. I dined to-day at Lord Treasurer's with Mrs. Masham, and she is
extremely like one Mrs. Malolly, that was once my landlady in Trim.
She was used with mighty kindness and respect, like a favourite. It
signifies nothing going to this Lord Treasurer about business, although
it be his own. He was in haste, and desires I will come again, and dine
with him to-morrow. His famous lying porter is fallen sick, and they
think he will die: I wish I had all my half-crowns again. I believe I
have told you he is an old Scotch fanatic, and the damn'dest liar in his
office alive.(12) I have a mind to recommend Patrick to succeed him:
I have trained him up pretty well. I reckon for certain you are now in
town. The weather now begins to alter to rain.

Windsor, 18. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, and he would make me go
with him to Windsor, although I was engaged to the Secretary, to whom
I made my excuses: we had in the coach besides, his son and son-in-law,
Lord Harley and Lord Dupplin, who are two of our Society, and seven of
us met by appointment, and supped this night with the Secretary. It was
past nine before we got here, but a fine moonshiny night. I shall go
back, I believe, on Monday. 'Tis very late.

19. The Queen did not stir out to-day, she is in a little fit of the
gout. I dined at Mr. Masham's; we had none but our Society members, six
in all, and I supped with Lord Treasurer. The Queen has ordered twenty
thousand pounds to go on with the building at Blenheim, which has been
starved till now, since the change of the Ministry.(13) I suppose it
is to reward his last action of getting into the French lines.(14) Lord
Treasurer kept me till past twelve.

London, 20. It rained terribly every step of our journey to-day: I
returned with the Secretary after a dinner of cold meat, and went to
Mrs. Van's, where I sat the evening. I grow very idle, because I have a
great deal of business. Tell me how you passed your time at Wexford; and
are not you glad at heart you have got home safe to your lodgings at St.
Mary's, pray? And so your friends come to visit you; and Mrs. Wal