 I stopped short in my overture, and we parted very drily; and
I shall say nothing to Steele, and let them do as they will; but, if
things stand as they are, he will certainly lose it, unless I save him;
and therefore I will not speak to him, that I may not report to his
disadvantage. Is not this vexatious? and is there so much in the proverb
of proffered service? When shall I grow wise? I endeavour to act in the
most exact points of honour and conscience; and my nearest friends will
not understand it so. What must a man expect from his enemies? This
would vex me, but it shall not; and so I bid you good-night, etc.

23. I know 'tis neither wit nor diversion to tell you every day where I
dine; neither do I write it to fill my letter; but I fancy I shall,
some time or other, have the curiosity of seeing some particulars how
I passed my life when I was absent from MD this time; and so I tell you
now that I dined to-day at Molesworth's, the Florence Envoy, then
went to the Coffee-house, where I behaved myself coldly enough to Mr.
Addison, and so came home to scribble. We dine together to-morrow and
next day by invitation; but I shall alter my behaviour to him, till he
begs my pardon, or else we shall grow bare acquaintance. I am weary of
friends; and friendships are all monsters, but MD's.

24. I forgot to tell you, that last night I went to Mr. Harley's,
hoping--faith, I am blundering, for it was this very night at six; and I
hoped he would have told me all things were done and granted: but he
was abroad, and came home ill, and was gone to bed, much out of order,
unless the porter lied. I dined to-day at Sir Matthew Dudley's, with Mr.
Addison, etc.

25. I was to-day to see the Duke of Ormond; and, coming out, met Lord
Berkeley of Stratton,(9) who told me that Mrs. Temple,(10) the widow,
died last Saturday, which, I suppose, is much to the outward grief and
inward joy of the family. I dined to-day with Addison and Steele, and
a sister of Mr. Addison, who is married to one Mons. Sartre,(11) a
Frenchman, prebendary of Westminster, who has a delicious house and
garden; yet I thought it was a sort of monastic life in those cloisters,
and I liked Laracor better. Addison's sister is a sort of a wit, very
like him. I am not fond of her, etc.

26. I was to-day to see Mr. Congreve,(12) who is almost blind with
cataracts growing on his eyes; and his case is, that he must wait two or
three years, until the cataracts are riper, and till he is quite blind,
and then he must have them couched; and, besides, he is never rid of the
gout, yet he looks young and fresh, and is as cheerful as ever. He is
younger by three years or more than I; and I am twenty years younger
than he. He gave me a pain in the great toe, by mentioning the gout. I
find such suspicions frequently, but they go off again. I had a second
letter from Mr. Morgan,(13) for which I thank you: I wish you were
whipped, for forgetting to send him that answer I desired you in one of
my former, that I could do nothing for him of what he desired, having
no credit at all, etc. Go, be far enough, you negligent baggages. I have
had also a letter from Parvisol, with an account how my livings are set;
and that they are fallen, since last year, sixty pounds. A comfortable
piece of news! He tells me plainly that he finds you have no mind to
part with the horse, because you sent for him at the same time you sent
him my letter; so that I know not what must be done. It is a sad thing
that Stella must have her own horse, whether Parvisol will or no. So now
to answer your letter that I had three or four days ago. I am not now in
bed, but am come home by eight; and, it being warm, I write up. I never
writ to the Bishop of Killala, which, I suppose, was the reason he had
not my letter. I have not time, there is the short of it.--As fond as
the Dean(14) is of my letter, he has not written to me. I would only
know whether Dean Bolton(15) paid him the twenty pounds; and for the
rest, he may kiss--And that you may ask him, because I am in pain about
it, that Dean Bolton is such a whipster. 'Tis the most obliging thing
in the world in Dean Sterne to be so kind to you. I believe he knows it
will please me, and makes up, that way, his other usage.(16) No, we
have had none of your snow, but a little one morning; yet I think it
was great snow for an hour or so, but no longer. I had heard of Will
Crowe's(17) death before, but not the foolish circumstance that hastened
his end. No, I have taken care that Captain Pratt(18) shall not suffer
by Lord Anglesea's death.(19) I will try some contrivance to get a copy
of my picture from Jervas. I will make Sir Andrew Fountaine buy one as
for himself, and I will pay him again, and take it, that is, provided I
have money to spare when I leave this.--Poor John! is he gone? and
Madam Parvisol(20) has been in town! Humm. Why, Tighe(21) and I, when he
comes, shall not take any notice of each other; I would not do it
much in this town, though we had not fallen out.--I was to-day at Mr.
Sterne's lodging: he was not within; and Mr. Leigh is not come to town;
but I will do Dingle