r bird, by springs made of
_Yahoo’s_ hairs; and I often gathered wholesome herbs, which I boiled,
and ate as salads with my bread; and now and then, for a rarity, I made a
little butter, and drank the whey.  I was at first at a great loss for
salt, but custom soon reconciled me to the want of it; and I am confident
that the frequent use of salt among us is an effect of luxury, and was
first introduced only as a provocative to drink, except where it is
necessary for preserving flesh in long voyages, or in places remote from
great markets; for we observe no animal to be fond of it but man, and as
to myself, when I left this country, it was a great while before I could
endure the taste of it in anything that I ate.

This is enough to say upon the subject of my diet, wherewith other
travellers fill their books, as if the readers were personally concerned
whether we fare well or ill.  However, it was necessary to mention this
matter, lest the world should think it impossible that I could find
sustenance for three years in such a country, and among such inhabitants.

When it grew towards evening, the master horse ordered a place for me to
lodge in; it was but six yards from the house and separated from the
stable of the _Yahoos_.  Here I got some straw, and covering myself with
my own clothes, slept very sound.  But I was in a short time better
accommodated, as the reader shall know hereafter, when I come to treat
more particularly about my way of living.



CHAPTER III.


The author studies to learn the language.  The Houyhnhnm, his master,
assists in teaching him.  The language described.  Several Houyhnhnms of
quality come out of curiosity to see the author.  He gives his master a
short account of his voyage.

My principal endeavour was to learn the language, which my master (for so
I shall henceforth call him), and his children, and every servant of his
house, were desirous to teach me; for they looked upon it as a prodigy,
that a brute animal should discover such marks of a rational creature.  I
pointed to every thing, and inquired the name of it, which I wrote down
in my journal-book when I was alone, and corrected my bad accent by
desiring those of the family to pronounce it often.  In this employment,
a sorrel nag, one of the under-servants, was very ready to assist me.

In speaking, they pronounced through the nose and throat, and their
language approaches nearest to the High-Dutch, or German, of any I know
in Europe; but is much more graceful and significant.  The emperor
Charles V. made almost the same observation, when he said “that if he
were to speak to his horse, it should be in High-Dutch.”

The curiosity and impatience of my master were so great, that he spent
many hours of his leisure to instruct me.  He was convinced (as he
afterwards told me) that I must be a _Yahoo_; but my teachableness,
civility, and cleanliness, astonished him; which were qualities
altogether opposite to those animals.  He was most perplexed about my
clothes, reasoning sometimes with himself, whether they were a part of my
body: for I never pulled them off till the family were asleep, and got
them on before they waked in the morning.  My master was eager to learn
“whence I came; how I acquired those appearances of reason, which I
discovered in all my actions; and to know my story from my own mouth,
which he hoped he should soon do by the great proficiency I made in
learning and pronouncing their words and sentences.”  To help my memory,
I formed all I learned into the English alphabet, and writ the words
down, with the translations.  This last, after some time, I ventured to
do in my master’s presence.  It cost me much trouble to explain to him
what I was doing; for the inhabitants have not the least idea of books or
literature.

In about ten weeks time, I was able to understand most of his questions;
and in three months, could give him some tolerable answers.  He was
extremely curious to know “from what part of the country I came, and how
I was taught to imitate a rational creature; because the _Yahoos_ (whom
he saw I exactly resembled in my head, hands, and face, that were only
visible), with some appearance of cunning, and the strongest disposition
to mischief, were observed to be the most unteachable of all brutes.”  I
answered, “that I came over the sea, from a far place, with many others
of my own kind, in a great hollow vessel made of the bodies of trees:
that my companions forced me to land on this coast, and then left me to
shift for myself.”  It was with some difficulty, and by the help of many
signs, that I brought him to understand me.  He replied, “that I must
needs be mistaken, or that I said the thing which was not;” for they have
no word in their language to express lying or falsehood.  “He knew it was
impossible that there could be a country beyond the sea, or that a parcel
of brutes could move a wooden vessel whither they pleased upon water.  He
was sure no _Houyhnhnm_ alive could make such a vessel, nor would trust
_Yahoos_ to manage it.”

The word _Houyhnhnm_, in their tongue, signifies a _horse_, and, in its
etymology, 