My service to Mrs. Stoyte, and
Catherine; and let Catherine get the coffee ready against I come, and
not have so much care on her countenance; for all will go well.--Mr.
Bernage, Mr. Bernage, Mr. Fiddlenage, I have had three letters from
him now successively; he sends no directions, and how the D---- shall
I write to him? I would have burnt his last, if I had not seen Stella's
hand at the bottom: his request is all nonsense. How can I assist him in
buying? and if he be ordered to go to Spain, go he must, or else sell,
and I believe one can hardly sell in such a juncture. If he had stayed,
and new regiments raised, I would have used my endeavour to have had him
removed; although I have no credit that way, or very little: but, if
the regiment goes, he ought to go too; he has had great indulgence, and
opportunities of saving; and I have urged him to it a hundred times.
What can I do? whenever it lies in my power to do him a good office, I
will do it. Pray draw up this into a handsome speech, and represent it
to him from me, and that I would write, if I knew where to direct to
him; and so I have told you, and desired you would tell him, fifty
times. Yes, Madam Stella, I think I can read your long concluding word,
but you can't read mine after bidding you good-night. And yet methinks,
I mend extremely in my writing; but when Stella's eyes are well, I hope
to write as bad as ever.--So now I have answered your letter, and mine
is an answer; for I lay yours before me, and I look and write, and write
and look, and look and write again.--So good-morrow, madams both, and I
will go rise, for I must rise; for I take pills at night, and so I must
rise early, I don't know why.

25. Morning. I did not tell you how I passed my time yesterday, nor
bid you good-night, and there was good reason. I went in the morning
to Secretary St. John about some business; he had got a great Whig with
him; a creature of the Duke of Marlborough, who is a go-between to make
peace between the Duke and the Ministry: so he came out of his closet,
and, after a few words, desired I would dine with him at three; but Mr.
Lewis stayed till six before he came; and there we sat talking, and the
time slipped so, that at last, when I was positive to go, it was past
two o'clock; so I came home, and went straight to bed. He would never
let me look at his watch, and I could not imagine it above twelve when
we went away. So I bid you good-night for last night, and now I bid you
good-morrow, and I am still in bed, though it be near ten, but I must
rise.

26, 27, 28, 29, 30. I have been so lazy and negligent these last four
days that I could not write to MD. My head is not in order, and yet is
not absolutely ill, but giddyish, and makes me listless; I walk every
day, and take drops of Dr. Cockburn, and I have just done a box of
pills; and to-day Lady Kerry sent me some of her bitter drink, which I
design to take twice a day, and hope I shall grow better. I wish I were
with MD; I long for spring and good weather, and then I will come over.
My riding in Ireland keeps me well. I am very temperate, and eat of the
easiest meats as I am directed, and hope the malignity will go off;
but one fit shakes me a long time. I dined to-day with Lord Mountjoy,
yesterday at Mr. Stone's, in the City, on Sunday at Vanhomrigh's,
Saturday with Ford, and Friday I think at Vanhomrigh's; and that is all
the journal I can send MD, for I was so lazy while I was well, that I
could not write. I thought to have sent this to-night, but 'tis ten,
and I'll go to bed, and write on t'other side to Parvisol to-morrow, and
send it on Thursday; and so good-night, my dears; and love Presto, and
be healthy, and Presto will be so too, etc.

Cut off these notes handsomely, d'ye hear, sirrahs, and give Mrs. Brent
hers, and keep yours till you see Parvisol, and then make up the letter
to him, and send it him by the first opportunity; and so God Almighty
bless you both, here and ever, and poor Presto.

What, I warrant you thought at first that these last lines were another
letter.

Dingley, Pray pay Stella six fishes, and place them to the account of
your humble servant, Presto.

Stella, Pray pay Dingley six fishes, and place them to the account of
your humble servant, Presto.

There are bills of exchange for you.




LETTER 15.

LONDON, Jan. 31, 1710-11.

I am to send you my fourteenth to-morrow; but my head, having some
little disorders, confounds all my journals. I was early this morning
with Mr. Secretary St. John about some business, so I could not scribble
my morning lines to MD. They are here intending to tax all little
printed penny papers a halfpenny every half-sheet, which will utterly
ruin Grub Street, and I am endeavouring to prevent it.(1) Besides, I was
forwarding an impeachment against a certain great person; that was two
of my businesses with the Secretary, were they not worthy ones? It was
Ford's birthday, and I refused the Secretary, and dined with Ford.
We are here in as smart a frost for the time as I have seen; delicate
walking weather, and the Canal and Rosamond's Pond(2) full of the rabble
sliding 