ttle prints, and a pamphlet made by one
of my under-strappers. Somerset is not out yet. I doubt not but you will
have the Prophecy in Ireland, although it is not published here, only
printed copies given to friends. Tell me, do you understand it? No,
faith, not without help. Tell me what you stick at, and I'll explain.
We turned out a member of our Society yesterday for gross neglect and
non-attendance. I writ to him by order to give him notice of it. It is
Tom Harley,(7) secretary to the Treasurer, and cousin-german to Lord
Treasurer. He is going to Hanover from the Queen. I am to give the Duke
of Ormond notice of his election as soon as I can see him.

5. I went this morning with a parishioner of mine, one Nuttal, who came
over here for a legacy of one hundred pounds, and a roguish lawyer had
refused to pay him, and would not believe he was the man. I writ to the
lawyer a sharp letter, that I had taken Nuttal into my protection, and
was resolved to stand by him, and the next news was, that the lawyer
desired I would meet him, and attest he was the man, which I did, and
his money was paid upon the spot. I then visited Lord Treasurer, who is
now right again, and all well, only that the Somerset family is not out
yet. I hate that; I don't like it, as the man said, by, etc. Then I went
and visited poor Will Congreve, who had a French fellow tampering with
one of his eyes; he is almost blind of both. I dined with some merchants
in the City, but could not see Stratford, with whom I had business.
Presto, leave off your impertinence, and answer our letter, saith MD.
Yes, yes, one of these days, when I have nothing else to do. O, faith,
this letter is a week written, and not one side done yet. These ugly
spots are not tobacco, but this is the last gilt sheet I have of large
paper, therefore hold your tongue. Nuttal was surprised when they gave
him bits of paper instead of money, but I made Ben Tooke put him in his
geers:(8) he could not reckon ten pounds, but was puzzled with the Irish
way. Ben Tooke and my printer have desired me to make them stationers
to the Ordnance, of which Lord Rivers is Master, instead of the Duke of
Marlborough. It will be a hundred pounds a year apiece to them, if I can
get it. I will try to-morrow.

6. I went this morning to Earl Rivers, gave him joy of his new
employment, and desired him to prefer my printer and bookseller to be
stationers to his office. He immediately granted it me; but, like an old
courtier, told me it was wholly on my account, but that he heard I had
intended to engage Mr. Secretary to speak to him, and desired I would
engage him to do so, but that, however, he did it only for my sake. This
is a Court trick, to oblige as many as you can at once. I read prayers
to poor Mrs. Wesley, who is very much out of order, instead of going
to church; and then I went to Court, which I found very full, in
expectation of seeing Prince Eugene, who landed last night, and lies at
Leicester House; he was not to see the Queen till six this evening. I
hope and believe he comes too late to do the Whigs any good. I refused
dining with the Secretary, and was like to lose my dinner, which was at
a private acquaintance's. I went at six to see the Prince at Court, but
he was gone in to the Queen; and when he came out, Mr. Secretary, who
introduced him, walked so near him that he quite screened me from him
with his great periwig. I'll tell you a good passage: as Prince Eugene
was going with Mr. Secretary to Court, he told the Secretary that
Hoffman, the Emperor's Resident, said to His Highness that it was not
proper to go to Court without a long wig, and his was a tied-up one:
"Now," says the Prince, "I knew not what to do, for I never had a long
periwig in my life; and I have sent to all my valets and footmen, to see
whether any of them have one, that I might borrow it, but none of them
has any."--Was not this spoken very greatly with some sort of contempt?
But the Secretary said it was a thing of no consequence, and only
observed by gentlemen ushers. I supped with Lord Masham, where Lord
Treasurer and Mr. Secretary supped with us: the first left us at twelve,
but the rest did not part till two, yet I have written all this, because
it is fresh: and now I'll go sleep if I can; that is, I believe I shall,
because I have drank a little.

7. I was this morning to give the Duke of Ormond notice of the honour
done him to make him one of our Society, and to invite him on Thursday
next to the Thatched House: he has accepted it with the gratitude and
humility such a preferment deserves, but cannot come till the next
meeting, because Prince Eugene is to dine with him that day, which I
allowed for: a good excuse, and will report accordingly. I dined with
Lord Masham, and sat there till eight this evening, and came home,
because I was not very well, but a little griped; but now I am well
again, I will not go, at least but very seldom, to Lord Masham's
suppers. Lord Treasurer is generally there, and that tempts me, but late
sitting up does not agree with me: there's the short and the long, and I
won't do it; so take your a