 though
perhaps I will write to him before he goes; yet where shall I direct?
for I suppose he has left Connolly's.(8)

13. I have left off Lady Kerry's bitter, and got another box of pills.
I have no fits of giddiness, but only some little disorders towards it;
and I walk as much as I can. Lady Kerry is just as I am, only a great
deal worse: I dined to-day at Lord Shelburne's, where she is, and we
con ailments, which makes us very fond of each other. I have taken Mr.
Harley into favour again, and called to see him, but he was not within;
I will use to visit him after dinner, for he dines too late for my head:
then I went to visit poor Congreve, who is just getting out of a severe
fit of the gout; and I sat with him till near nine o'clock. He gave me a
Tatler(9) he had written out, as blind as he is, for little Harrison. It
is about a scoundrel that was grown rich, and went and bought a coat of
arms at the Herald's, and a set of ancestors at Fleet Ditch; 'tis well
enough, and shall be printed in two or three days, and if you read those
kind of things, this will divert you. It is now between ten and eleven,
and I am going to bed.

14. This was Mrs. Vanhomrigh's daughter's(10) birthday, and Mr. Ford
and I were invited to dinner to keep it, and we spent the evening there,
drinking punch. That was our way of beginning Lent; and in the morning
Lord Shelburne, Lady Kerry, Mrs. Pratt, and I, went to Hyde Park,
instead of going to church; for, till my head is a little settled, I
think it better not to go; it would be so silly and troublesome to go
out sick. Dr. Duke(11) died suddenly two or three nights ago; he was one
of the wits when we were children, but turned parson, and left it, and
never writ farther than a prologue or recommendatory copy of verses. He
had a fine living given him by the Bishop of Winchester(12) about three
months ago; he got his living suddenly, and he got his dying so too.

15. I walked purely to-day about the Park, the rain being just over, of
which we have had a great deal, mixed with little short frosts. I went
to the Court of Requests, thinking, if Mr. Harley dined early, to go
with him. But meeting Leigh and Sterne, they invited me to dine
with them, and away we went. When we got into his room, one H----, a
worthless Irish fellow, was there, ready to dine with us; so I stepped
out, and whispered them, that I would not dine with that fellow: they
made excuses, and begged me to stay; but away I went to Mr. Harley's,
and he did not dine at home; and at last I dined at Sir John
Germaine's,(13) and found Lady Betty but just recovered of a
miscarriage. I am writing an inscription for Lord Berkeley's(14) tomb;
you know the young rake his son, the new Earl, is married to the Duke of
Richmond's daughter,(15) at the Duke's country house, and are now coming
to town. She will be fluxed in two months, and they'll be parted in a
year. You ladies are brave, bold, venturesome folks; and the chit is but
seventeen, and is ill-natured, covetous, vicious, and proud in extremes.
And so get you gone to Stoyte to-morrow.

16. Faith, this letter goes on but slow; 'tis a week old, and the first
side not written. I went to-day into the City for a walk, but the person
I designed to dine with was not at home; so I came back, and called at
Congreve's, and dined with him and Estcourt,(16) and laughed till six;
then went to Mr. Harley's, who was not gone to dinner; there I stayed
till nine, and we made up our quarrel, and he has invited me to dinner
to-morrow, which is the day of the week (Saturday) that Lord Keeper
and Secretary St. John dine with him privately, and at last they have
consented to let me among them on that day. Atterbury and Prior went
to bury poor Dr. Duke. Congreve's nasty white wine has given me the
heart-burn.

17. I took some good walks in the Park to-day, and then went to
Mr. Harley. Lord Rivers was got there before me, and I chid him for
presuming to come on a day when only Lord Keeper and the Secretary and I
were to be there; but he regarded me not; so we all dined together,
and sat down at four; and the Secretary has invited me to dine with him
to-morrow. I told them I had no hopes they could ever keep in, but that
I saw they loved one another so well, as indeed they seem to do. They
call me nothing but Jonathan; and I said I believed they would leave me
Jonathan as they found me; and that I never knew a Ministry do anything
for those whom they make companions of their pleasures; and I believe
you will find it so; but I care not. I am upon a project of getting
five hundred pounds,(17) without being obliged to anybody; but that is
a secret, till I see my dearest MD; and so hold your tongue, and do not
talk, sirrahs, for I am now about it.

18. My head has no fits, but a little disordered before dinner; yet I
walk stoutly, and take pills, and hope to mend. Secretary St. John would
needs have me dine with him to-day; and there I found three persons I
never saw, two I had no acquaintance with, and one I did not care for:
so I left them early and came home, it being no day to walk, but scurvy
rain and wind. The S