not spoil
her eyes, and Dingley can't read my hand very well; and I am afraid my
letters are too long: then you must suppose one to be two, and read them
at twice. I dined to-day with Mr. Harley: Mr. Prior(30) dined with us.
He has left my memorial with the Queen, who has consented to give the
First-Fruits and Twentieth Parts,(31) and will, we hope, declare it
to-morrow in the Cabinet. But I beg you to tell it to no person alive;
for so I am ordered, till in public: and I hope to get something of
greater value. After dinner came in Lord Peterborow:(32) we renewed our
acquaintance, and he grew mightily fond of me. They began to talk of a
paper of verses called "Sid Hamet." Mr. Harley repeated part, and then
pulled them out, and gave them to a gentleman at the table to read,
though they had all read them often. Lord Peterborow would let nobody
read them but himself: so he did; and Mr. Harley bobbed(33) me at every
line, to take notice of the beauties. Prior rallied Lord Peterborow for
author of them; and Lord Peterborow said he knew them to be his; and
Prior then turned it upon me, and I on him. I am not guessed at all
in town to be the author; yet so it is: but that is a secret only to
you.(34) Ten to one whether you see them in Ireland; yet here they run
prodigiously. Harley presented me to Lord President of Scotland,(35) and
Mr. Benson,(36) Lord of the Treasury. Prior and I came away at nine, and
sat at the Smyrna(37) till eleven, receiving acquaintance.

16. This morning early I went in a chair, and Patrick before it, to Mr.
Harley, to give him another copy of my memorial, as he desired; but he
was full of business, going to the Queen, and I could not see him;
but he desired I would send up the paper, and excused himself upon his
hurry. I was a little baulked; but they tell me it is nothing. I shall
judge by next visit. I tipped his porter with half a crown; and so I am
well there for a time at least. I dined at Stratford's in the City, and
had Burgundy and Tokay: came back afoot like a scoundrel: then went with
Mr. Addison and supped with Lord Mountjoy, which made me sick all night.
I forgot that I bought six pounds of chocolate for Stella, and a little
wooden box; and I have a great piece of Brazil tobacco for Dingley,(38)
and a bottle of palsy-water(39) for Stella: all which, with the two
handkerchiefs that Mr. Sterne has bought, and you must pay him for,
will be put in the box, directed to Mrs. Curry's, and sent by Dr.
Hawkshaw,(40) whom I have not seen; but Sterne has undertaken it. The
chocolate is a present, madam, for Stella. Don't read this, you little
rogue, with your little eyes; but give it to Dingley, pray now; and I
will write as plain as the skies: and let Dingley write Stella's part,
and Stella dictate to her, when she apprehends her eyes, etc.

17. This letter should have gone this post, if I had not been taken
up with business, and two nights being late out; so it must stay till
Thursday. I dined to-day with your Mr. Sterne,(41) by invitation, and
drank Irish wine;(42) but, before we parted, there came in the prince
of puppies, Colonel Edgworth;(43) so I went away. This day came out the
Tatler, made up wholly of my "Shower," and a preface to it. They say it
is the best thing I ever writ, and I think so too. I suppose the Bishop
of Clogher will show it you. Pray tell me how you like it. Tooke is
going on with my Miscellany.(44) I'd give a penny the letter to the
Bishop of Killaloe(45) was in it: 'twould do him honour. Could not you
contrive to say, you hear they are printing my things together; and that
you with the bookseller had that letter among the rest: but don't say
anything of it as from me. I forget whether it was good or no; but only
having heard it much commended, perhaps it may deserve it. Well, I have
to-morrow to finish this letter in, and then I will send it next day. I
am so vexed that you should write your third to me, when you had but my
second, and I had written five, which now I hope you have all: and so I
tell you, you are saucy, little, pretty, dear rogues, etc.

18. To-day I dined, by invitation, with Stratford and others, at a young
merchant's in the City, with Hermitage and Tokay, and stayed till nine,
and am now come home. And that dog Patrick is abroad, and drinking, and
I cannot I get my night-gown. I have a mind to turn that puppy away: he
has been drunk ten times in three weeks. But I han't time to say more;
so good-night, etc.

19. I am come home from dining in the city with Mr. Addison, at a
merchant's; and just now, at the Coffee-house, we have notice that the
Duke of Ormond was this day declared Lord Lieutenant at Hampton Court,
in Council. I have not seen Mr. Harley since; but hope the affair is
done about First-Fruits. I will see him, if possible, to-morrow morning;
but this goes to-night. I have sent a box to Mr. Sterne, to send to you
by some friend: I have directed it for Mr. Curry, at his house; so you
have warning when it comes, as I hope it will soon. The handkerchiefs
will be put in some friend's pocket, not to pay custom. And so here ends
my sixth, sent when I had