inue so till night,
when, my left hand being already loose, I could easily free myself: and
as for the inhabitants, I had reason to believe I might be a match for
the greatest army they could bring against me, if they were all of the
same size with him that I saw.  But fortune disposed otherwise of me.
When the people observed I was quiet, they discharged no more arrows;
but, by the noise I heard, I knew their numbers increased; and about four
yards from me, over against my right ear, I heard a knocking for above an
hour, like that of people at work; when turning my head that way, as well
as the pegs and strings would permit me, I saw a stage erected about a
foot and a half from the ground, capable of holding four of the
inhabitants, with two or three ladders to mount it: from whence one of
them, who seemed to be a person of quality, made me a long speech,
whereof I understood not one syllable.  But I should have mentioned, that
before the principal person began his oration, he cried out three times,
_Langro dehul san_ (these words and the former were afterwards repeated
and explained to me); whereupon, immediately, about fifty of the
inhabitants came and cut the strings that fastened the left side of my
head, which gave me the liberty of turning it to the right, and of
observing the person and gesture of him that was to speak.  He appeared
to be of a middle age, and taller than any of the other three who
attended him, whereof one was a page that held up his train, and seemed
to be somewhat longer than my middle finger; the other two stood one on
each side to support him.  He acted every part of an orator, and I could
observe many periods of threatenings, and others of promises, pity, and
kindness.  I answered in a few words, but in the most submissive manner,
lifting up my left hand, and both my eyes to the sun, as calling him for
a witness; and being almost famished with hunger, having not eaten a
morsel for some hours before I left the ship, I found the demands of
nature so strong upon me, that I could not forbear showing my impatience
(perhaps against the strict rules of decency) by putting my finger
frequently to my mouth, to signify that I wanted food.  The _hurgo_ (for
so they call a great lord, as I afterwards learnt) understood me very
well.  He descended from the stage, and commanded that several ladders
should be applied to my sides, on which above a hundred of the
inhabitants mounted and walked towards my mouth, laden with baskets full
of meat, which had been provided and sent thither by the king’s orders,
upon the first intelligence he received of me.  I observed there was the
flesh of several animals, but could not distinguish them by the taste.
There were shoulders, legs, and loins, shaped like those of mutton, and
very well dressed, but smaller than the wings of a lark.  I ate them by
two or three at a mouthful, and took three loaves at a time, about the
bigness of musket bullets.  They supplied me as fast as they could,
showing a thousand marks of wonder and astonishment at my bulk and
appetite.  I then made another sign, that I wanted drink.  They found by
my eating that a small quantity would not suffice me; and being a most
ingenious people, they slung up, with great dexterity, one of their
largest hogsheads, then rolled it towards my hand, and beat out the top;
I drank it off at a draught, which I might well do, for it did not hold
half a pint, and tasted like a small wine of Burgundy, but much more
delicious.  They brought me a second hogshead, which I drank in the same
manner, and made signs for more; but they had none to give me.  When I
had performed these wonders, they shouted for joy, and danced upon my
breast, repeating several times as they did at first, _Hekinah degul_.
They made me a sign that I should throw down the two hogsheads, but first
warning the people below to stand out of the way, crying aloud, _Borach
mevolah_; and when they saw the vessels in the air, there was a universal
shout of _Hekinah degul_.  I confess I was often tempted, while they were
passing backwards and forwards on my body, to seize forty or fifty of the
first that came in my reach, and dash them against the ground.  But the
remembrance of what I had felt, which probably might not be the worst
they could do, and the promise of honour I made them—for so I interpreted
my submissive behaviour—soon drove out these imaginations.  Besides, I
now considered myself as bound by the laws of hospitality, to a people
who had treated me with so much expense and magnificence.  However, in my
thoughts I could not sufficiently wonder at the intrepidity of these
diminutive mortals, who durst venture to mount and walk upon my body,
while one of my hands was at liberty, without trembling at the very sight
of so prodigious a creature as I must appear to them.  After some time,
when they observed that I made no more demands for meat, there appeared
before me a person of high rank from his imperial majesty.  His
excellency, having mounted on the small of my right leg, advanced
forwards up to my face, with about a dozen of his retinue; and p