y's errand when I see him. What do I know whether
china be dear or no? I once took a fancy of resolving to grow mad for
it, but now it is off; I suppose I told you in some former letter. And
so you only want some salad-dishes, and plates, and etc. Yes, yes, you
shall. I suppose you have named as much as will cost five pounds.--Now
to Stella's little postscript; and I am almost crazed that you vex
yourself for not writing. Cannot you dictate to Dingley, and not strain
your little, dear eyes? I am sure it is the grief of my soul to think
you are out of order. Pray be quiet; and, if you will write, shut your
eyes, and write just a line, and no more, thus, "How do you do, Mrs.
Stella?" That was written with my eyes shut. Faith, I think it is better
than when they are open: and then Dingley may stand by, and tell you
when you go too high or too low.--My letters of business, with packets,
if there be any more occasion for such, must be enclosed to Mr. Addison,
at St. James's Coffee-house: but I hope to hear, as soon as I see Mr.
Harley, that the main difficulties are over, and that the rest will be
but form.--Take two or three nutgalls, take two or three----galls, stop
your receipt in your--I have no need on't. Here is a clutter! Well, so
much for your letter, which I will now put up in my letter-partition in
my cabinet, as I always do every letter as soon as I answer it. Method
is good in all things. Order governs the world. The Devil is the author
of confusion. A general of an army, a minister of state; to descend
lower, a gardener, a weaver, etc. That may make a fine observation,
if you think it worth finishing; but I have not time. Is not this a
terrible long piece for one evening? I dined to-day with Patty Rolt at
my cousin Leach's,(22) with a pox, in the City: he is a printer, and
prints the Postman, oh hoo, and is my cousin, God knows how, and he
married Mrs. Baby Aires of Leicester; and my cousin Thomson was with us:
and my cousin Leach offers to bring me acquainted with the author of the
Postman;(23) and says he does not doubt but the gentleman will be glad
of my acquaintance; and that he is a very ingenious man, and a great
scholar, and has been beyond sea. But I was modest and said, may be the
gentleman was shy, and not fond of new acquaintance; and so put it off:
and I wish you could hear me repeating all I have said of this in its
proper tone, just as I am writing it. It is all with the same cadence
with "Oh hoo," or as when little girls say, "I have got an apple, miss,
and I won't give you some." It is plaguy twelvepenny weather this last
week, and has cost me ten shillings in coach and chair hire. If the
fellow that has your money will pay it, let me beg you to buy Bank Stock
with it, which is fallen near thirty per cent. and pays eight pounds per
cent. and you have the principal when you please: it will certainly soon
rise. I would to God Lady Giffard would put in the four hundred pounds
she owes you,(24) and take the five per cent. common interest, and give
you the remainder. I will speak to your mother about it when I see her.
I am resolved to buy three hundred pounds of it for myself, and take
up what I have in Ireland; and I have a contrivance for it, that I hope
will do, by making a friend of mine buy it as for himself, and I will
pay him when I can get in my money. I hope Stratford will do me that
kindness. I'll ask him tomorrow or next day.

27. Mr. Rowe(25) the poet desired me to dine with him to-day. I went to
his office (he is under-secretary in Mr. Addison's place that he had
in England), and there was Mr. Prior; and they both fell commending my
"Shower" beyond anything that has been written of the kind: there never
was such a "Shower" since Danae's, etc. You must tell me how it is liked
among you. I dined with Rowe; Prior could not come: and after dinner
we went to a blind tavern,(26) where Congreve, Sir Richard Temple,(27)
Estcourt,(28) and Charles Main,(29) were over a bowl of bad punch. The
knight sent for six flasks of his own wine for me, and we stayed till
twelve. But now my head continues pretty well; I have left off my
drinking, and only take a spoonful mixed with water, for fear of the
gout, or some ugly distemper; and now, because it is late, I will, etc.

28. Garth and Addison and I dined to-day at a hedge(30) tavern; then I
went to Mr. Harley, but he was denied, or not at home: so I fear I
shall not hear my business is done before this goes. Then I visited Lord
Pembroke,(31) who is just come to town; and we were very merry talking
of old things; and I hit him with one pun. Then I went to see the Ladies
Butler, and the son of a whore of a porter denied them: so I sent them a
threatening message by another lady, for not excepting me always to the
porter. I was weary of the Coffee-house, and Ford(32) desired me to sit
with him at next door; which I did, like a fool, chatting till twelve,
and now am got into bed. I am afraid the new Ministry is at a terrible
loss about money: the Whigs talk so, it would give one the spleen; and I
am afraid of meeting Mr. Harley out of humour. They think he will 