rnage. The Duke goes with the first fair wind. I
could not find him, but I have given the memorial to another to give
him; and, however, it shall be sent after him. Bernage has made a
blunder in offering money to his colonel without my advice; however, he
is made captain-lieutenant, only he must recruit the company, which
will cost him forty pounds, and that is cheaper than an hundred. I dined
to-day with Mr. Secretary St. John, and stayed till seven, but would not
drink his champagne and burgundy, for fear of the gout. My shin mends,
but is not well. I hope it will by the time I send this letter, next
Saturday.

19. I went to-day into the City, but in a coach, and sossed(9) up my
leg on the seat; and as I came home, I went to see poor Charles
Barnard's(10) books, which are to be sold by auction, and I itch to lay
out nine or ten pounds for some fine editions of fine authors. But
'tis too far, and I shall let it slip, as I usually do all such
opportunities. I dined in a coffee-house with Stratford upon chops and
some of his wine. Where did MD dine? Why, poor MD dined at home to-day,
because of the Archbishop, and they could not go abroad, and had a
breast of mutton and a pint of wine. I hope Mrs. Walls mends; and pray
give me an account what sort of godfather I made, and whether I behaved
myself handsomely. The Duke of Argyle is gone; and whether he has my
memorial, I know not, till I see Dr. Arbuthnot,(11) to whom I gave it.
That hard name belongs to a Scotch doctor, an acquaintance of the Duke's
and me; Stella can't pronounce it. Oh that we were at Laracor this fine
day! the willows begin to peep, and the quicks to bud. My dream is out:
I was a-dreamed last night that I ate ripe cherries.--And now they
begin to catch the pikes, and will shortly the trouts (pox on these
Ministers!)--and I would fain know whether the floods were ever so high
as to get over the holly bank or the river walk; if so, then all my
pikes are gone; but I hope not. Why don't you ask Parvisol these things,
sirrahs? And then my canal, and trouts, and whether the bottom be fine
and clear? But harkee, ought not Parvisol to pay in my last year's rents
and arrears out of his hands? I am thinking, if either of you have heads
to take his accounts, it should be paid in to you; otherwise to Mr.
Walls. I will write an order on t'other side; and do as you will. Here's
a world of business; but I must go sleep, I'm drowsy; and so goodnight,
etc.

20. This sore shin ruins me in coach-hire; no less than two shillings
to-day going and coming from the City, where I dined with one you never
heard of, and passed an insipid day. I writ this post to Bernage, with
the account I told you above. I hope he will like it; 'tis his own
fault, or it would have been better. I reckon your next letter will
be full of Mr. Harley's stabbing. He still mends, but abundance of
extravasated blood has come out of the wound: he keeps his bed, and sees
nobody. The Speaker's eldest son(12) is just dead of the smallpox, and
the House is adjourned a week, to give him time to wipe off his tears.
I think it very handsomely done; but I believe one reason is, that they
want Mr. Harley so much. Biddy Floyd is like to do well: and so go to
your Dean's, and roast his oranges, and lose your money, do so, you
saucy sluts. Stella, you lost three shillings and fourpence t'other
night at Stoyte's, yes, you did, and Presto stood in a corner, and
saw you all the while, and then stole away. I dream very often I am in
Ireland, and that I have left my clothes and things behind me, and have
not taken leave of anybody; and that the Ministry expect me tomorrow,
and such nonsense.

21. I would not for a guinea have a letter from you till this goes; and
go it shall on Saturday, faith. I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, to save my
shin, and then went on some business to the Secretary, and he was not at
home.

22. Yesterday was a short day's journal: but what care I? what cares
saucy Presto? Darteneuf(13) invited me to dinner to-day. Do not you
know Darteneuf? That's the man that knows everything, and that everybody
knows; and that knows where a knot of rabble are going on a holiday, and
when they were there last: and then I went to the Coffee-house. My shin
mends, but is not quite healed: I ought to keep it up, but I don't; I
e'en let it go as it comes. Pox take Parvisol and his watch! If I do
not receive the ten-pound bill I am to get towards it, I will neither
receive watch nor chain; so let Parvisol know.

23. I this day appointed the Duke of Ormond to meet him at Ned
Southwell's, about an affair of printing Irish Prayer-Books, etc.,(14)
but the Duke never came. There Southwell had letters that two packets
are taken; so if MD writ then, the letters are gone; for they are
packets coming hither. Mr. Harley is not yet well, but his extravasated
blood continues, and I doubt he will not be quite well in a good while:
I find you have heard of the fact by Southwell's letters from Ireland:
what do you think of it? I dined with Sir John Perceval,(15) and saw his
lady sitting in the bed, in the forms of a lying-in woman; and com