ffee-house, and I would fain have a letter, and not have a letter:
and I do not know what, nor I do not know how, and this goes on very
slow; it is a week to-morrow since I began it. I am a poor country
gentleman, and do not know how the world passes. Do you know that every
syllable I write I hold my lips just for all the world as if I were
talking in our own little language to MD? Faith, I am very silly; but
I cannot help it for my life. I got home early to-night. My solicitors,
that used to ply me every morning, knew not where to find me; and I am
so happy not to hear "Patrick, Patrick," called a hundred times every
morning. But I looked backward, and find I have said this before. What
care I? Go to the Dean, and roast the oranges.

5. I dined to-day with my friend Lewis, and we were deep in politics
how to save the present Ministry; for I am afraid of Mr. Secretary, as
I believe I told you. I went in the evening to see Mr. Harley; and, upon
my word, I was in perfect joy. Mr. Secretary was just going out of the
door; but I made him come back, and there was the old Saturday Club,
Lord Keeper, Lord Rivers, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Harley, and I; the first
time since his stabbing. Mr. Secretary went away; but I stayed till
nine, and made Mr. Harley show me his breast, and tell all the story;
and I showed him the Archbishop of Dublin's letter, and defended him
effectually. We were all in mighty good humour. Lord Keeper and I left
them together, and I walked here after nine two miles, and I found a
parson drunk fighting with a seaman, and Patrick and I were so wise to
part them, but the seaman followed him to Chelsea, cursing at him, and
the parson slipped into a house, and I know no more. It mortified me to
see a man in my coat so overtaken. A pretty scene for one that just came
from sitting with the Prime Ministers! I had no money in my pocket, and
so could not be robbed. However, nothing but Mr. Harley shall make me
take such a journey again. We don't yet know who will be President in
Lord Rochester's room. I measured, and found that the penknife would
have killed Mr. Harley if it had gone but half the breadth of my
thumb-nail lower, so near was he to death. I was so curious as to ask
him what were his thoughts while they were carrying him home in the
chair. He said he concluded himself a dead man. He will not allow that
Guiscard gave him the second stab; though my Lord Keeper, who is blind,
and I that was not there, are positive in it. He wears a plaster still
as broad as half a crown. Smoke how wide the lines are, but, faith, I
don't do it on purpose: but I have changed my side in this new Chelsea
bed, and I do not know how, methinks, but it is so unfit, and so
awkward, never saw the like.

6. You must remember to enclose your letters in a fair paper, and direct
the outside thus: "To Erasmus Lewis, Esq.; at my Lord Dartmouth's office
at Whitehall." I said so before, but it may miscarry, you know, yet I
think none of my letters did ever miscarry; faith, I think never one;
among all the privateers and the storms. O, faith, my letters are too
good to be lost. MD's letters may tarry, but never miscarry, as the old
woman used to say. And indeed, how should they miscarry, when they never
come before their time? It was a terrible rainy day; yet I made a shift
to steal fair weather overhead enough to go and come in. I was early
with the Secretary, and dined with him afterwards. In the morning I
began to chide him, and tell him my fears of his proceedings. But Arthur
Moore(10) came up and relieved him. But I forgot, for you never heard of
Arthur Moore. But when I get Mr. Harley alone, I will know the bottom.
You will have Dr. Raymond over before this letter, and what care you?

7. I hope and believe my walks every day do me good. I was busy at home,
and set out late this morning, and dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, at whose
lodgings I always change my gown and periwig. I visited this afternoon,
and among others, poor Biddy Floyd,(11) who is very red, but I
believe won't be much marked. As I was coming home, I met Sir George
Beaumont(12) in the Pall Mall, who would needs walk with me as far as
Buckingham House. I was telling him of my head; he said he had been ill
of the same disorder, and by all means forbid me bohea tea, which, he
said, always gave it him; and that Dr. Radcliffe said it was very bad.
Now I had observed the same thing, and have left it off this month,
having found myself ill after it several times; and I mention it that
Stella may consider it for her own poor little head: a pound lies
ready packed up and directed for Mrs. Walls, to be sent by the first
convenience. Mr. Secretary told me yesterday that Mr. Harley would this
week be Lord Treasurer and a peer; so I expect it every day; yet perhaps
it may not be till Parliament is up, which will be in a fortnight.

8. I was to-day with the Duke of Ormond, and recommended to him the care
of poor Joe Beaumont, who promises me to do him all justice and favour,
and give him encouragement; and desired I would give a memorial to Ned
Southwell about it, which I will, and so tell Joe wh