y that ever I saw.
The pamphlet is published; Lord Treasurer had it by him on the table,
and was asking me about the mottoes in the title-page; he gave me one of
them himself.(16) I must send you the pamphlet, if I can.

28. Mrs. Van sent to me to dine with her to-day, because some ladies of
my acquaintance were to be there; and there I dined. I was this morning
to return Domville his visit, and went to visit Mrs. Masham, who was
not within. I am turned out of my lodging by my landlady: it seems her
husband and her son are coming home; but I have taken another lodging
hard by, in Leicester Fields. I presented Mr. Domville to Mr. Lewis and
Mr. Prior this morning. Prior and I are called the two Sosias,(17) in a
Whig newspaper. Sosias, can you read it? The pamphlet begins to make a
noise: I was asked by several whether I had seen it, and they advised
me to read it, for it was something very extraordinary. I shall be
suspected; and it will have several paltry answers. It must take its
fate, as Savage(18) said of his sermon that he preached at Farnham on
Sir William Temple's death. Domville saw Savage in Italy, and says he is
a coxcomb, and half mad: he goes in red, and with yellow waistcoats,
and was at ceremony kneeling to the Pope on a Palm Sunday, which is much
more than kissing his toe; and I believe it will ruin him here when 'tis
told. I'll answer your letter in my new lodgings: I have hardly room; I
must borrow from the other side.

29. New lodgings. My printer came this morning to tell me he must
immediately print a second edition,(19) and Lord Treasurer made one
or two small additions: they must work day and night to have it out on
Saturday; they sold a thousand in two days. Our Society met to-day;
nine of us were present: we dined at our brother Bathurst's.(20) We made
several regulations, and have chosen three new members, Lord Orrery,(21)
Jack Hill, who is Mrs. Masham's brother, he that lately miscarried in
the expedition to Quebec, and one Colonel Disney.(22)--We have taken
a room in a house near St. James's to meet in. I left them early about
correcting the pamphlet, etc., and am now got home, etc.

30. This morning I carried Domville to see my Lord Harley, and I did
some business with Lord Treasurer, and have been all this afternoon with
the printer, adding something to the second edition. I dined with the
printer: the pamphlet makes a world of noise, and will do a great deal
of good; it tells abundance of most important facts which were not
at all known. I'll answer your letter to-morrow morning; or suppose I
answer it just now, though it is pretty late. Come then.--You say you
are busy with Parliaments, etc.; that's more than ever I will be when
I come back; but you will have none these two years. Lord Santry, etc.,
yes, I have had enough on't.(23) I am glad Dilly is mended; does not he
thank me for showing him the Court and the great people's faces? He had
his glass out at the Queen and the rest. 'Tis right what Dilly says:
I depend upon nothing from my friends, but to go back as I came. Never
fear Laracor, 'twill mend with a peace, or surely they'll give me the
Dublin parish. Stella is in the right: the Bishop of Ossory(24) is the
silliest, best-natured wretch breathing, of as little consequence as
an egg-shell. Well, the spelling I have mentioned before; only the next
time say AT LEAST, and not AT LEST. Pox on your Newbury!(25) what can I
do for him? I'll give his case (I am glad it is not a woman's) to what
members I know; that's all I can do. Lord Treasurer's lameness goes off
daily. Pray God preserve poor good Mrs. Stoyte; she would be a great
loss to us all: pray give her my service, and tell her she has my
heartiest prayers. I pity poor Mrs. Manley; but I think the child is
happy to die, considering how little provision it would have had.--Poh,
every pamphlet abuses me, and for things that I never writ. Joe(26)
should have written me thanks for his two hundred pounds: I reckon he
got it by my means; and I must thank the Duke of Ormond, who I dare
swear will say he did it on my account. Are they golden pippins, those
seven apples? We have had much rain every day as well as you. 7 pounds,
17 shillings, 8 pence, old blunderer, not 18 shillings: I have reckoned
it eighteen times. Hawkshaw's eight pounds is not reckoned and if it
be secure, it may lie where it is, unless they desire to pay it: so
Parvisol may let it drop till further orders; for I have put Mrs.
Wesley's money into the Bank, and will pay her with Hawkshaw's.--I mean
that Hawkshaw's money goes for an addition to MD, you know; but be good
housewives. Bernage never comes now to see me; he has no more to ask;
but I hear he has been ill.--A pox on Mrs. South's(27) affair; I can do
nothing in it, but by way of assisting anybody else that solicits it,
by dropping a favourable word, if it comes in my way. Tell Walls I do
no more for anybody with my Lord Treasurer, especially a thing of this
kind. Tell him I have spent all my discretion, and have no more to
use.--And so I have answered your letter fully and plainly.--And so I
have got to the third side