reated me “to give him something as an encouragement to ingenuity,
especially since this had been a very dear season for cucumbers.”  I made
him a small present, for my lord had furnished me with money on purpose,
because he knew their practice of begging from all who go to see them.

I went into another chamber, but was ready to hasten back, being almost
overcome with a horrible stink.  My conductor pressed me forward,
conjuring me in a whisper “to give no offence, which would be highly
resented;” and therefore I durst not so much as stop my nose.  The
projector of this cell was the most ancient student of the academy; his
face and beard were of a pale yellow; his hands and clothes daubed over
with filth.  When I was presented to him, he gave me a close embrace, a
compliment I could well have excused.  His employment, from his first
coming into the academy, was an operation to reduce human excrement to
its original food, by separating the several parts, removing the tincture
which it receives from the gall, making the odour exhale, and scumming
off the saliva.  He had a weekly allowance, from the society, of a vessel
filled with human ordure, about the bigness of a Bristol barrel.

I saw another at work to calcine ice into gunpowder; who likewise showed
me a treatise he had written concerning the malleability of fire, which
he intended to publish.

There was a most ingenious architect, who had contrived a new method for
building houses, by beginning at the roof, and working downward to the
foundation; which he justified to me, by the like practice of those two
prudent insects, the bee and the spider.

There was a man born blind, who had several apprentices in his own
condition: their employment was to mix colours for painters, which their
master taught them to distinguish by feeling and smelling.  It was indeed
my misfortune to find them at that time not very perfect in their
lessons, and the professor himself happened to be generally mistaken.
This artist is much encouraged and esteemed by the whole fraternity.

In another apartment I was highly pleased with a projector who had found
a device of ploughing the ground with hogs, to save the charges of
ploughs, cattle, and labour.  The method is this: in an acre of ground
you bury, at six inches distance and eight deep, a quantity of acorns,
dates, chestnuts, and other mast or vegetables, whereof these animals are
fondest; then you drive six hundred or more of them into the field,
where, in a few days, they will root up the whole ground in search of
their food, and make it fit for sowing, at the same time manuring it with
their dung: it is true, upon experiment, they found the charge and
trouble very great, and they had little or no crop.  However it is not
doubted, that this invention may be capable of great improvement.

I went into another room, where the walls and ceiling were all hung round
with cobwebs, except a narrow passage for the artist to go in and out.
At my entrance, he called aloud to me, “not to disturb his webs.”  He
lamented “the fatal mistake the world had been so long in, of using
silkworms, while we had such plenty of domestic insects who infinitely
excelled the former, because they understood how to weave, as well as
spin.”  And he proposed further, “that by employing spiders, the charge
of dyeing silks should be wholly saved;” whereof I was fully convinced,
when he showed me a vast number of flies most beautifully coloured,
wherewith he fed his spiders, assuring us “that the webs would take a
tincture from them; and as he had them of all hues, he hoped to fit
everybody’s fancy, as soon as he could find proper food for the flies, of
certain gums, oils, and other glutinous matter, to give a strength and
consistence to the threads.”

There was an astronomer, who had undertaken to place a sun-dial upon the
great weathercock on the town-house, by adjusting the annual and diurnal
motions of the earth and sun, so as to answer and coincide with all
accidental turnings of the wind.

I was complaining of a small fit of the colic, upon which my conductor
led me into a room where a great physician resided, who was famous for
curing that disease, by contrary operations from the same instrument.  He
had a large pair of bellows, with a long slender muzzle of ivory: this he
conveyed eight inches up the anus, and drawing in the wind, he affirmed
he could make the guts as lank as a dried bladder.  But when the disease
was more stubborn and violent, he let in the muzzle while the bellows
were full of wind, which he discharged into the body of the patient; then
withdrew the instrument to replenish it, clapping his thumb strongly
against the orifice of then fundament; and this being repeated three or
four times, the adventitious wind would rush out, bringing the noxious
along with it, (like water put into a pump), and the patient recovered.
I saw him try both experiments upon a dog, but could not discern any
effect from the former.  After the latter the animal was ready to burst,
and made so violent a discharge as was very offensive to me and my
companion.  The dog died on 