going on to more particulars, when my master commanded me silence.
He said, “whoever understood the nature of _Yahoos_, might easily believe
it possible for so vile an animal to be capable of every action I had
named, if their strength and cunning equalled their malice.  But as my
discourse had increased his abhorrence of the whole species, so he found
it gave him a disturbance in his mind to which he was wholly a stranger
before.  He thought his ears, being used to such abominable words, might,
by degrees, admit them with less detestation: that although he hated the
_Yahoos_ of this country, yet he no more blamed them for their odious
qualities, than he did a _gnnayh_ (a bird of prey) for its cruelty, or a
sharp stone for cutting his hoof.  But when a creature pretending to
reason could be capable of such enormities, he dreaded lest the
corruption of that faculty might be worse than brutality itself.  He
seemed therefore confident, that, instead of reason we were only
possessed of some quality fitted to increase our natural vices; as the
reflection from a troubled stream returns the image of an ill shapen
body, not only larger but more distorted.”

He added, “that he had heard too much upon the subject of war, both in
this and some former discourses.  There was another point, which a little
perplexed him at present.  I had informed him, that some of our crew left
their country on account of being ruined by law; that I had already
explained the meaning of the word; but he was at a loss how it should
come to pass, that the law, which was intended for every man’s
preservation, should be any man’s ruin.  Therefore he desired to be
further satisfied what I meant by law, and the dispensers thereof,
according to the present practice in my own country; because he thought
nature and reason were sufficient guides for a reasonable animal, as we
pretended to be, in showing us what he ought to do, and what to avoid.”

I assured his honour, “that the law was a science in which I had not much
conversed, further than by employing advocates, in vain, upon some
injustices that had been done me: however, I would give him all the
satisfaction I was able.”

I said, “there was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth in
the art of proving, by words multiplied for the purpose, that white is
black, and black is white, according as they are paid.  To this society
all the rest of the people are slaves.  For example, if my neighbour has
a mind to my cow, he has a lawyer to prove that he ought to have my cow
from me.  I must then hire another to defend my right, it being against
all rules of law that any man should be allowed to speak for himself.
Now, in this case, I, who am the right owner, lie under two great
disadvantages: first, my lawyer, being practised almost from his cradle
in defending falsehood, is quite out of his element when he would be an
advocate for justice, which is an unnatural office he always attempts
with great awkwardness, if not with ill-will.  The second disadvantage
is, that my lawyer must proceed with great caution, or else he will be
reprimanded by the judges, and abhorred by his brethren, as one that
would lessen the practice of the law.  And therefore I have but two
methods to preserve my cow.  The first is, to gain over my adversary’s
lawyer with a double fee, who will then betray his client by insinuating
that he hath justice on his side.  The second way is for my lawyer to
make my cause appear as unjust as he can, by allowing the cow to belong
to my adversary: and this, if it be skilfully done, will certainly
bespeak the favour of the bench.  Now your honour is to know, that these
judges are persons appointed to decide all controversies of property, as
well as for the trial of criminals, and picked out from the most
dexterous lawyers, who are grown old or lazy; and having been biassed all
their lives against truth and equity, lie under such a fatal necessity of
favouring fraud, perjury, and oppression, that I have known some of them
refuse a large bribe from the side where justice lay, rather than injure
the faculty, by doing any thing unbecoming their nature or their office.

“It is a maxim among these lawyers that whatever has been done before,
may legally be done again: and therefore they take special care to record
all the decisions formerly made against common justice, and the general
reason of mankind.  These, under the name of precedents, they produce as
authorities to justify the most iniquitous opinions; and the judges never
fail of directing accordingly.

“In pleading, they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the
cause; but are loud, violent, and tedious, in dwelling upon all
circumstances which are not to the purpose.  For instance, in the case
already mentioned; they never desire to know what claim or title my
adversary has to my cow; but whether the said cow were red or black; her
horns long or short; whether the field I graze her in be round or square;
whether she was milked at home or abroad; what diseases she is subject
to, and the like; after which they consult precedents, adjourn t