ften send him letters signed, "Your
humble servant, The Devil," and such stuff. I sat with him till after
ten, and have business to do.

15. The Secretary came yesterday to town from Hampton Court, so I went
to him early this morning; but he went back last night again: and coming
home to-night I found a letter from him to tell me that he was just
come from Hampton Court, and just returning, and will not be here till
Saturday night. A pox take him! he stops all my business. I'll beg leave
to come back when I have got over this, and hope to see MD in Ireland
soon after Christmas.--I'm weary of Courts, and want my journeys to
Laracor; they did me more good than all the Ministries these twenty
years. I dined to-day in the City, but did no business as I designed.
Lady Mountjoy tells me that Dilly is got to Ireland, and that the
Archbishop of Dublin was the cause of his returning so soon. The
Parliament was prorogued two days ago for a fortnight, which, with the
Queen's absence, makes the town very dull and empty. They tell me the
Duke of Ormond brings all the world away with him from Ireland. London
has nothing so bad in it in winter as your knots of Irish folks; but I
go to no coffee-house, and so I seldom see them. This letter shall go
on Saturday; and then I am even with the world again. I have lent money,
and cannot get it, and am forced to borrow for myself.

16. My man made a blunder this morning, and let up a visitor, when I had
ordered to see nobody; so I was forced to hurry a hang-dog instrument of
mine into my bed-chamber, and keep him cooling his heels there above
an hour.--I am going on fairly in the common forms of a great cold; I
believe it will last me about ten days in all.--I should have told
you, that in those two verses sent to Lord Treasurer, G---d stands for
Guiscard; that is easy; but we differed about F---n; I thought it was
for Frenchman, because he hates them, and they him: and so it would
be, That although Guiscard's knife missed its design, the knife of a
Frenchman might yet do it. My lord thinks it stands for Felton, the name
of him that stabbed the first Duke of Buckingham. Sir Andrew Fountaine
and I dined with the Vans to-day, and my cold made me loiter all the
evening. Stay, young women, don't you begin to owe me a letter? just a
month to-day since I had your N.22. I'll stay a week longer, and then,
I'll expect like agog; till then you may play at ombre, and so forth, as
you please. The Whigs are still crying down our peace, but we will have
it, I hope, in spite of them: the Emperor comes now with his two eggs
a penny, and promises wonders to continue the war; but it is too late;
only I hope the fear of it will serve to spur on the French to be easy
and sincere: Night, sirrahs; I'll go early to bed.

17. Morning. This goes to-night; I will put it myself in the
post-office. I had just now a long letter from the Archbishop of Dublin,
giving me an account of the ending your session, how it ended in a
storm; which storm, by the time it arrives here, will be only half
nature. I can't help it, I won't hide. I often advised the dissolution
of that Parliament, although I did not think the scoundrels had so much
courage; but they have it only in the wrong, like a bully that will
fight for a whore, and run away in an army. I believe, by several things
the Archbishop says, he is not very well either with the Government or
clergy.--See how luckily my paper ends with a fortnight.--God Almighty
bless and preserve dearest little MD.--I suppose your Lord Lieutenant
is now setting out for England. I wonder the Bishop of Clogher does not
write to me, or let me know of his statues, and how he likes them: I
will write to him again, as soon as I have leisure. Farewell, dearest
MD, and love Presto, who loves MD infinitely above all earthly things,
and who will.--My service to Mrs. Stoyte and Catherine. I'm sitting in
my bed, but will rise to seal this. Morrow, dear rogues: Farewell again,
dearest MD, etc.




LETTER 35.

LONDON, NOV. 17, 1711.

I put my last this evening in the post-office. I dined with Dr.
Cockburn. This being Queen Elizabeth's birthday, we have the D---- and
all to do among us. I just heard of the stir as my letter was sealed
this morning, and was so cross I would not open it to tell you. I have
been visiting Lady Oglethorpe(1) and Lady Worsley;(2) the latter is
lately come to town for the winter, and with child, and what care
you? This is Queen Elizabeth's birthday, usually kept in this town
by apprentices, etc.; but the Whigs designed a mighty procession by
midnight, and had laid out a thousand pounds to dress up the Pope,
Devil, cardinals, Sacheverell, etc., and carry them with torches about,
and burn them. They did it by contribution. Garth gave five guineas; Dr.
Garth I mean, if ever you heard of him. But they were seized last night,
by order from the Secretary: you will have an account of it, for they
bawl it about the streets already.(3) They had some very foolish and
mischievous designs; and it was thought they would have put the rabble
upon assaulting my Lord Treasurer's house and the Secretar