 to save us but a Peace; and I am sure we cannot
have such a one as we hoped; and then the Whigs will bawl what they
would have done had they continued in power. I tell the Ministry this
as much as I dare; and shall venture to say a little more to them,
especially about the Duke of Marlborough, who, as the Whigs give out,
will lay down his command; and I question whether ever any wise State
laid aside a general who had been successful nine years together, whom
the enemy so much dread, and his own soldiers cannot but believe must
always conquer; and you know that in war opinion is nine parts in
ten. The Ministry hear me always with appearance of regard, and much
kindness; but I doubt they let personal quarrels mingle too much with
their proceedings. Meantime, they seem to value all this as nothing,
and are as easy and merry as if they had nothing in their hearts or upon
their shoulders; like physicians, who endeavour to cure, but feel no
grief, whatever the patient suffers.--Pshaw, what is all this? Do you
know one thing, that I find I can write politics to you much easier
than to anybody alive? But I swear my head is full; and I wish I were at
Laracor, with dear, charming MD, etc.

8. Morning. Methinks, young women, I have made a great progress in four
days, at the bottom of this side already, and no letter yet come from
MD (that word interlined is morning). I find I have been writing State
affairs to MD. How do they relish it? Why, anything that comes from
Presto is welcome; though really, to confess the truth, if they had
their choice, not to disguise the matter, they had rather, etc. Now,
Presto, I must tell you, you grow silly, says Stella. That is but one
body's opinion, madam. I promised to be with Mr. Secretary St. John this
morning; but I am lazy, and will not go, because I had a letter from
him yesterday, to desire I would dine there to-day. I shall be chid;
but what care I?--Here has been Mrs. South with me, just come from Sir
Andrew Fountaine, and going to market. He is still in a fever, and may
live or die. His mother and sister are now come up, and in the house; so
there is a lurry.(13) I gave Mrs. South half a pistole for a New Year's
gift. So good-morrow, dears both, till anon.--At night. Lord! I have
been with Mr. Secretary from dinner till eight; and, though I drank
wine and water, I am so hot! Lady Stanley(14) came to visit Mrs. St.
John,(15) and sent up for me to make up a quarrel with Mrs. St. John,
whom I never yet saw; and do you think that devil of a Secretary would
let me go, but kept me by main force, though I told him I was in love
with his lady, and it was a shame to keep back a lover, etc.? But all
would not do; so at last I was forced to break away, but never went
up, it was then too late; and here I am, and have a great deal to do
to-night, though it be nine o'clock; but one must say something to these
naughty MD's, else there will be no quiet.

9. To-day Ford and I set apart to go into the City to buy books; but we
only had a scurvy dinner at an alehouse; and he made me go to the tavern
and drink Florence, four and sixpence a flask; damned wine! so I spent
my money, which I seldom do, and passed an insipid day, and saw nobody,
and it is now ten o'clock, and I have nothing to say, but that 'tis a
fortnight to-morrow since I had a letter from MD; but if I have it
time enough to answer here, 'tis well enough, otherwise woe betide you,
faith. I will go to the toyman's, here just in Pall Mall, and he sells
great hugeous battoons;(16) yes, faith, and so he does. Does not he,
Dingley? Yes, faith. Don't lose your money this Christmas.

10. I must go this morning to Mr. Secretary St. John. I promised
yesterday, but failed, so can't write any more till night to poor, dear
MD.--At night. O, faith, Dingley. I had company in the morning, and
could not go where I designed; and I had a basket from Raymond at
Bristol, with six bottles of wine and a pound of chocolate, and some
tobacco to snuff; and he writ under, the carriage was paid; but he lied,
or I am cheated, or there is a mistake; and he has written to me so
confusedly about some things, that Lucifer could not understand him.
This wine is to be drunk with Harley's brother(17) and Sir Robert
Raymond, Solicitor-General, in order to recommend the Doctor to your new
Lord Chancellor, who left this place on Monday; and Raymond says he
is hasting to Chester, to go with him.--I suppose he leaves his wife
behind; for when he left London he had no thoughts of stirring till
summer. So I suppose he will be with you before this. Ford came and
desired I would dine with him, because it was Opera-day; which I did,
and sent excuses to Lord Shelburne, who had invited me.

11. I am setting up a new Tatler, little Harrison,(18) whom I have
mentioned to you. Others have put him on it, and I encourage him; and he
was with me this morning and evening, showing me his first, which comes
out on Saturday. I doubt he will not succeed, for I do not much approve
his manner; but the scheme is Mr. Secretary St. John's and mine, and
would have done well enough in good hands. I recommen