y's, and other
violences. The militia was raised to prevent it, and now, I suppose,
all will be quiet. The figures are now at the Secretary's office at
Whitehall. I design to see them if I can.

18. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary, who just came from Hampton
Court. He was telling me more particulars about this business of burning
the Pope. It cost a great deal of money, and had it gone on, would have
cost three times as much; but the town is full of it, and half a dozen
Grub Street papers already. The Secretary and I dined at Brigadier
Britton's, but I left them at six, upon an appointment with some sober
company of men and ladies, to drink punch at Sir Andrew Fountaine's. We
were not very merry; and I don't love rack punch, I love it better with
brandy; are you of my opinion? Why then, twelvepenny weather; sirrahs,
why don't you play at shuttlecock? I have thought of it a hundred times;
faith, Presto will come over after Christmas, and will play with Stella
before the cold weather is gone. Do you read the Spectators? I never do;
they never come in my way; I go to no coffee-houses. They say abundance
of them are very pretty; they are going to be printed in small volumes;
I'll bring them over with me. I shall be out of my hurry in a week,
and if Leigh be not gone over, I will send you by him what I am now
finishing. I don't know where Leigh is; I have not seen him this good
while, though he promised to call: I shall send to him. The Queen comes
to town on Thursday for good and all.

19. I was this morning at Lord Dartmouth's office, and sent out for him
from the Committee of Council, about some business. I was asking him
more concerning this bustle about the figures in wax-work of the Pope,
and Devil, etc. He was not at leisure, or he would have seen them. I
hear the owners are so impudent, that they design to replevin them by
law. I am assured that the figure of the Devil is made as like Lord
Treasurer as they could. Why, I dined with a friend in St. James's
Street. Lord Treasurer, I am told, was abroad to-day; I will know
to-morrow how he does after it. The Duke of Marlborough is come, and was
yesterday at Hampton Court with the Queen; no, it was t'other day; no,
it was yesterday; for to-day I remember Mr. Secretary was going to see
him, when I was there, not at the Duke of Marlborough's, but at the
Secretary's; the Duke is not so fond of me. What care I? I won seven
shillings to-night at picquet: I play twice a year or so.

20. I have been so teased with Whiggish discourse by Mrs. Barton and
Lady Betty Germaine, never saw the like. They turn all this affair of
the Pope-burning into ridicule; and, indeed, they have made too great a
clutter about it, if they had no real reason to apprehend some tumults.
I dined with Lady Betty. I hear Prior's commission is passed to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary for the peace; my Lord
Privy Seal, who you know is Bishop of Bristol, is the other; and Lord
Strafford, already Ambassador at The Hague, the third: I am forced to
tell you, ignorant sluts, who is who. I was punning scurvily with Sir
Andrew Fountaine and Lord Pembroke this evening: do you ever pun now?
Sometimes with the Dean, or Tom Leigh.(4) Prior puns very well. Odso, I
must go see His Excellency, 'tis a noble advancement: but they could
do no less, after sending him to France. Lord Strafford is as proud
as Hell, and how he will bear one of Prior's mean birth on an equal
character with him, I know not. And so I go to my business, and bid you
good-night.

21. I was this morning busy with my printer: I gave him the fifth
sheet,(5) and then I went and dined with him in the City, to correct
something, and alter, etc., and I walked home in the dusk, and the rain
overtook me: and I found a letter here from Mr. Lewis; well, and so I
opened it; and he says the peace is past danger, etc. Well, and so there
was another letter enclosed in his: well, and so I looked on the outside
of this t'other letter. Well, and so who do you think this t'other
letter was from? Well, and so I'll tell you; it was from little MD,
N.23, 23, 23, 23. I tell you it is no more, I have told you so before:
but I just looked again to satisfy you. Hie, Stella, you write like an
emperor, a great deal together; a very good hand, and but four false
spellings in all. Shall I send them to you? I am glad you did not take
my correction ill. Well, but I won't answer your letter now, sirrah
saucyboxes, no, no; not yet; just a month and three days from the last,
which is just five weeks: you see it comes just when I begin to grumble.

22. Morning. Tooke has just brought me Dingley's money. I will give
you a note for it at the end of this letter. There was half a crown for
entering the letter of attorney; but I swore to stop that. I'll spend
your money bravely here. Morrow, dear sirrahs.--At night. I dined to-day
with Sir Thomas Hanmer; his wife, the Duchess of Grafton,(6) dined with
us: she wears a great high head-dress, such as was in fashion fifteen
years ago, and looks like a mad woman in it; yet she has great remains
of beauty. I was this evening to s