rise like a modest gentleman, and walk to
town. I fancy I begin to sweat less in the forehead by constant walking
than I used to do; but then I shall be so sunburnt, the ladies will not
like me. Come, let me rise, sirrahs. Morrow.--At night. I dined with
Ford to-day at his lodgings, and I found wine out of my own cellar, some
of my own chest of the great Duke's wine: it begins to turn. They say
wine with you in Ireland is half a crown a bottle. 'Tis as Stella says;
nothing that once grows dear in Ireland ever grows cheap again, except
corn, with a pox, to ruin the parson. I had a letter to-day from the
Archbishop of Dublin, giving me further thanks about vindicating him
to Mr. Harley and Mr. St. John, and telling me a long story about your
Mayor's election,(24) wherein I find he has had a finger, and given
way to further talk about him; but we know nothing of it here yet. This
walking to and fro, and dressing myself, takes up so much of my time
that I cannot go among company so much as formerly; yet what must a body
do? I thank God I yet continue much better since I left the town; I know
not how long it may last. I am sure it has done me some good for the
present. I do not totter as I did, but walk firm as a cock, only once
or twice for a minute, I do not know how; but it went off, and I never
followed it. Does Dingley read my hand as well as ever? do you, sirrah?
Poor Stella must not read Presto's ugly small hand.

     Preserve your eyes,
     If you be wise.

Your friend Walls's tea will go in a day or two towards Chester by one
Parson Richardson. My humble service to her, and to good Mrs. Stoyte,
and Catherine; and pray walk while you continue in Dublin. I expect your
next but one will be from Wexford. God bless dearest MD.

24. Morning. Mr. Secretary has sent his groom hither, to invite me to
dinner to-day, etc. God Almighty for ever bless and preserve you both,
and give you health, etc. Amen. Farewell, etc.

Do not I often say the same thing two or three times in the same letter,
sirrah?

Great wits, they say, have but short memories; that's good vile
conversation.




LETTER 24.

CHELSEA, May 24, 1711.

Morning. Once in my life the number of my letters and of the day of the
month is the same; that's lucky, boys; that's a sign that things will
meet, and that we shall make a figure together. What, will you still
have the impudence to say London, England, because I say Dublin,
Ireland? Is there no difference between London and Dublin, saucyboxes?
I have sealed up my letter, and am going to town. Morrow, sirrahs.--At
night. I dined with the Secretary to-day; we sat down between five and
six. Mr. Harley's patent passed this morning: he is now Earl of Oxford,
Earl Mortimer, and Lord Harley of Wigmore Castle. My letter was sealed,
or I would have told you this yesterday; but the public news may tell
it you. The Queen, for all her favour, has kept a rod(1) for him in her
closet this week; I suppose he will take it from her, though, in a day
or two. At eight o'clock this evening it rained prodigiously, as it did
from five; however, I set out, and in half-way the rain lessened, and I
got home, but tolerably wet; and this is the first wet walk I have had
in a month's time that I am here but, however, I got to bed, after a
short visit to Atterbury.

25. It rained this morning, and I went to town by water; and Ford and I
dined with Mr. Lewis by appointment. I ordered Patrick to bring my gown
and periwig to Mr. Lewis, because I designed to go to see Lord Oxford,
and so I told the dog; but he never came, though I stayed an hour longer
than I appointed; so I went in my old gown, and sat with him two hours,
but could not talk over some business I had with him; so he has desired
me to dine with him on Sunday, and I must disappoint the Secretary.
My lord set me down at a coffee-house, where I waited for the Dean
of Carlisle's chariot to bring me to Chelsea; for it has rained
prodigiously all this afternoon. The Dean did not come himself, but sent
me his chariot, which has cost me two shillings to the coachman; and so
I am got home, and Lord knows what is become of Patrick. I think I must
send him over to you; for he is an intolerable rascal. If I had
come without a gown, he would have served me so, though my life and
preferment should have lain upon it: and I am making a livery for him
will cost me four pounds; but I will order the tailor to-morrow to stop
till further orders. My Lord Oxford can't yet abide to be called
"my lord"; and when I called him "my lord," he called me "Dr. Thomas
Swift,"(2) which he always does when he has a mind to tease me. By a
second hand, he proposed my being his chaplain, which I by a second
hand excused; but we had no talk of it to-day: but I will be no man's
chaplain alive. But I must go and be busy.

26. I never saw Patrick till this morning, and that only once, for I
dressed myself without him; and when I went to town he was out of the
way. I immediately sent for the tailor, and ordered him to stop his hand
in Patrick's clothes till further orders. Oh, if it were in Ireland, I
should have turned him of