 that the plainest ordinary meat at
table; I love it best, and believe it wholesomest. You love rarities;
yes you do; I wish you had all that I ever see where I go. I was coming
home early, and met the Secretary in his chair, who persuaded me to go
with him to Britton's; for he said he had been all day at business, and
had eaten nothing. So I went, and the time passed so, that we stayed
till two, so you may believe 'tis late enough.

20. This day has gone all wrong, by sitting up so late last night. Lord
Treasurer is not yet well, and can't go to Windsor. I dined with Sir
Matthew Dudley, and took occasion to hint to him that he would lose his
employment, for which I am very sorry. Lord Pembroke and his family are
all come to town. I was kept so long at a friend's this evening that I
cannot send this to-night. When I knocked at my lodgings, a fellow asked
me where lodged Dr. Swift? I told him I was the person: he gave me
a letter he brought from the Secretary's office, and I gave him a
shilling: when I came up, I saw Dingley's hand: faith, I was afraid, I
do not know what. At last it was a formal letter, from Dingley about
her exchequer business. Well, I'll do it on Monday, and settle it with
Tooke. And now, boys, for your letter, I mean the first, N.21. Let's
see; come out, little letter. I never had the letter from the Bishop
that Raymond mentions; but I have written to Ned Southwell, to desire
the Duke of Ormond to speak to his reverence, that he may leave off his
impertinence. What a pox can they think I am doing for the Archbishop
here? You have a pretty notion of me in Ireland, to make me an agent
for the Archbishop of Dublin.--Why! do you think I value your
people's ingratitude about my part in serving them? I remit them their
first-fruits of ingratitude, as freely as I got the other remitted to
them. The Lord Treasurer defers writing his letter to them, or else they
would be plaguily confounded by this time. For he designs to give the
merit of it wholly to the Queen and me, and to let them know it was
done before the Duke of Ormond was Lord Lieutenant. You visit, you dine
abroad, you see friends; you pilgarlick;(14) you walk from Finglas, you
a cat's foot. O Lord--Lady Gore(15) hung her child by the WAIST; what is
that waist?(16) I don't understand that word; he must hang on till
you explain or spell it.--I don't believe he was pretty, that's a
liiii.--Pish! burn your First-Fruits; again at it. Stella has made
twenty false spellings in her writing; I'll send them to you all back
again on the other side of this letter, to mend them; I won't miss one.
Why, I think there were seventeen bishops' names to the letter Lord
Oxford received.--I will send you some pamphlets by Leigh; put me in
mind of it on Monday, for I shall go then to the printer; yes, and the
Miscellany. I am mightily obliged to Walls, but I don't deserve it by
any usage of him here, having seen him but twice, and once en passant.
Mrs. Manley forsworn ombre! What! and no blazing star appear? no
monsters born? no whale thrown up? have you not found out some evasion
for her? She had no such regard to oaths in her younger days. I got the
books for nothing, Madam Dingley; but the wine I got not; it was but a
promise.--Yes, my head is pretty well in the main, only now and then a
little threatening or so.--You talk of my reconciling some great folks.
I tell you what. The Secretary told me last night that he had found the
reason why the Queen was cold to him for some months past; that a friend
had told it him yesterday; and it was, that they suspected he was at the
bottom with the Duke of Marlborough. Then he said he had reflected upon
all I had spoken to him long ago, but he thought it had only been my
suspicion, and my zeal and kindness for him. I said I had reason to take
that very ill, to imagine I knew so little of the world as to talk at
a venture to a great Minister; that I had gone between him and Lord
Treasurer often, and told each of them what I had said to the other, and
that I had informed him so before. He said all that you may imagine to
excuse himself, and approve my conduct. I told him I knew all along that
this proceeding of mine was the surest way to send me back to my willows
in Ireland, but that I regarded it not, provided I could do the kingdom
service in keeping them well together. I minded him how often I had told
Lord Treasurer, Lord Keeper, and him together, that all things depended
on their union, and that my comfort was to see them love one another;
and I had told them all singly that I had not said this by chance, etc.
He was in a rage to be thus suspected; swears he will be upon a better
foot, or none at all; and I do not see how they can well want him in
this juncture. I hope to find a way of settling this matter. I act an
honest part, that will bring me neither honour nor praise. MD must
think the better of me for it: nobody else shall ever know of it. Here's
politics enough for once; but Madam DD gave me occasion for it. I think
I told you I have got into lodgings that don't smell ill--O Lord! the
spectacles: well, I'll do that on M