allowed to be witnesses in any
cause, either civil or criminal, not even for the decision of meers and
bounds.

“At ninety, they lose their teeth and hair; they have at that age no
distinction of taste, but eat and drink whatever they can get, without
relish or appetite.  The diseases they were subject to still continue,
without increasing or diminishing.  In talking, they forget the common
appellation of things, and the names of persons, even of those who are
their nearest friends and relations.  For the same reason, they never can
amuse themselves with reading, because their memory will not serve to
carry them from the beginning of a sentence to the end; and by this
defect, they are deprived of the only entertainment whereof they might
otherwise be capable.

“The language of this country being always upon the flux, the
_struldbrugs_ of one age do not understand those of another; neither are
they able, after two hundred years, to hold any conversation (farther
than by a few general words) with their neighbours the mortals; and thus
they lie under the disadvantage of living like foreigners in their own
country.”

This was the account given me of the _struldbrugs_, as near as I can
remember.  I afterwards saw five or six of different ages, the youngest
not above two hundred years old, who were brought to me at several times
by some of my friends; but although they were told, “that I was a great
traveller, and had seen all the world,” they had not the least curiosity
to ask me a question; only desired “I would give them _slumskudask_,” or
a token of remembrance; which is a modest way of begging, to avoid the
law, that strictly forbids it, because they are provided for by the
public, although indeed with a very scanty allowance.

They are despised and hated by all sorts of people.  When one of them is
born, it is reckoned ominous, and their birth is recorded very
particularly so that you may know their age by consulting the register,
which, however, has not been kept above a thousand years past, or at
least has been destroyed by time or public disturbances.  But the usual
way of computing how old they are, is by asking them what kings or great
persons they can remember, and then consulting history; for infallibly
the last prince in their mind did not begin his reign after they were
fourscore years old.

They were the most mortifying sight I ever beheld; and the women more
horrible than the men.  Besides the usual deformities in extreme old age,
they acquired an additional ghastliness, in proportion to their number of
years, which is not to be described; and among half a dozen, I soon
distinguished which was the eldest, although there was not above a
century or two between them.

The reader will easily believe, that from what I had hear and seen, my
keen appetite for perpetuity of life was much abated.  I grew heartily
ashamed of the pleasing visions I had formed; and thought no tyrant could
invent a death into which I would not run with pleasure, from such a
life.  The king heard of all that had passed between me and my friends
upon this occasion, and rallied me very pleasantly; wishing I could send
a couple of _struldbrugs_ to my own country, to arm our people against
the fear of death; but this, it seems, is forbidden by the fundamental
laws of the kingdom, or else I should have been well content with the
trouble and expense of transporting them.

I could not but agree, that the laws of this kingdom relative to the
_struldbrugs_ were founded upon the strongest reasons, and such as any
other country would be under the necessity of enacting, in the like
circumstances.  Otherwise, as avarice is the necessary consequence of old
age, those immortals would in time become proprietors of the whole
nation, and engross the civil power, which, for want of abilities to
manage, must end in the ruin of the public.



CHAPTER XI.


The author leaves Luggnagg, and sails to Japan.  From thence he returns
in a Dutch ship to Amsterdam, and from Amsterdam to England.

I thought this account of the _struldbrugs_ might be some entertainment
to the reader, because it seems to be a little out of the common way; at
least I do not remember to have met the like in any book of travels that
has come to my hands: and if I am deceived, my excuse must be, that it is
necessary for travellers who describe the same country, very often to
agree in dwelling on the same particulars, without deserving the censure
of having borrowed or transcribed from those who wrote before them.

There is indeed a perpetual commerce between this kingdom and the great
empire of Japan; and it is very probable, that the Japanese authors may
have given some account of the _struldbrugs_; but my stay in Japan was so
short, and I was so entirely a stranger to the language, that I was not
qualified to make any inquiries.  But I hope the Dutch, upon this notice,
will be curious and able enough to supply my defects.

His majesty having often pressed me to accept some employment in his
court, and finding me absolutely determined to return to my native
country, was pleased to give me his lic