h coat of arms on the
picture, and I only dreamed it. My reason is, because I would ask some
herald here, whether I should choose that coat, or one in Guillim's
large folio of heraldry,(4) where my uncle Godwin is named with another
coat of arms of three stags. This is sad stuff to rite; so nite, MD.

25. I was this morning again with the Secretary, and we were two hours
busy; and then went together to the Park, Hyde Park, I mean; and he
walked to cure his cold, and we were looking at two Arabian horses sent
some time ago to Lord Treasurer.(5) The Duke of Marlborough's coach
overtook us, with his Grace and Lord Godolphin in it; but they did not
see us, to our great satisfaction; for neither of us desired that either
of those two lords should see us together. There was half a dozen ladies
riding like cavaliers to take the air. My head is better to-day. I dined
with the Secretary; but we did no business after dinner, and at six I
walked into the fields; the days are grown pure and long; then I went to
visit Perceval(6) and his family, whom I had seen but twice since they
came to town. They too are going to the Bath next month. Countess Doll
of Meath(7) is such an owl that, wherever I visit, people are asking
me whether I know such an Irish lady, and her figure and her foppery? I
came home early, and have been amusing myself with looking into one of
Rymer's volumes of the Records of the Tower, and am mighty easy to think
I have no urgent business upon my hands. My third cold is not yet off; I
sometimes cough, and am not right with it in the morning. Did I tell you
that I believe it is Lady Masham's hot room that gives it me? I never
knew such a stove; and in my conscience I believe both my lord and she,
my Lord Treasurer, Mr. Secretary, and myself have all suffered by it. We
have all had colds together, but I walk home on foot. Nite dee logues.

26. I was again busy with the Secretary.(8) We read over some papers,
and did a good deal of business; and I dined with him, and we were to
do more business after dinner; but after dinner is after dinner--an old
saying and a true, "much drinking, little thinking." We had company with
us, and nothing could be done, and I am to go there again to-morrow.
I have now nothing to do; and the Parliament, by the Queen's
recommendation, is to take some method for preventing libels, etc.,
which will include pamphlets, I suppose. I don't know what method they
will take, but it comes on in a day or two. To-day in the morning I
visited upwards: first I saw the Duke of Ormond below stairs, and gave
him joy of his being declared General in Flanders; then I went up one
pair of stairs, and sat with the Duchess; then I went up another pair of
stairs, and paid a visit to Lady Betty; and desired her woman to go
up to the garret, that I might pass half an hour with her, but she was
young and handsome, and would not. The Duke is our President this week,
and I have bespoke a small dinner on purpose, for good example. Nite mi
deelest logues.

27. I was again with the Secretary this morning; but we only read over
some papers with Sir Thomas Hanmer; then I called at Lord Treasurer's;
it was his levee-day, but I went up to his bed-chamber, and said what
I had to say. I came down and peeped in at the chamber, where a hundred
fools were waiting, and two streets were full of coaches. I dined in the
City with my printer,(9) and came back at six to Lord Treasurer, who had
invited me to dinner, but I refused him. I sat there an hour or two, and
then went to Lord Masham's. They were all abroad: so truly I came, and
read whatever stuff was next me. I can sit and be idle now, which I have
not been above a year past. However, I will stay out the session, to see
if they have any further commands for me, and that, I suppose, will end
in April. But I may go somewhat before, for I hope all will be ended
by then, and we shall have either a certain peace, or certain war. The
Ministry is contriving new funds for money by lotteries, and we go on as
if the war were to continue, but I believe it will not. 'Tis pretty late
now, ung oomens; so I bid oo nite, own dee dallars.

28. I have been packing up some books in a great box I have bought, and
must buy another for clothes and luggage. This is a beginning towards
a removal. I have sent to Holland for a dozen shirts, and design to buy
another new gown and hat. I will come over like a zinkerman,(10) and
lay out nothing in clothes in Ireland this good while. I have writ
this night to the Provost. Our Society met to-day as usual, and we were
fourteen, beside the Earl of Arran,(11) whom his brother, the Duke of
Ormond, brought among us against all order. We were mightily shocked;
but, after some whispers, it ended in choosing Lord Arran one of our
Society, which I opposed to his face, but it was carried by all the rest
against me.

29. This is leap year, and this is leap day. Prince George was born on
this day. People are mistaken; and some here think it is St. David's
Day; but they do not understand the virtue of leap year. I have nothing
to do now, boys, and have been reading all this d