am easy, and they may hang themselves
for a parcel of insolent, ungrateful rascals. I suppose I told you in
my last, how they sent an address to the Duke of Ormond, and a letter to
Southwell, to call on me for the papers, after the thing was over; but
they had not received my letter, though the Archbishop might, by what
I writ to him, have expected it would be done. Well, there is an end of
that; and in a little time the Queen will send them notice, etc. And
so the methods will be settled; and then I shall think of returning,
although the baseness of those bishops makes me love Ireland less than I
did.

28. Lord Halifax sent to invite me to dinner; where I stayed till six,
and crossed him in all his Whig talk, and made him often come over to
me. I know he makes court to the new men, although he affects to talk
like a Whig. I had a letter to-day from the Bishop of Clogher; but
I writ to him lately, that I would obey his commands to the Duke of
Ormond. He says I bid him read the London "Shaver," and that you both
swore it was "Shaver," and not "Shower."(6) You all lie, and you are
puppies, and can't read Presto's hand. The Bishop is out entirely in his
conjectures of my share in the Tatlers.--I have other things to mind,
and of much greater importance;(7) else I have little to do to be
acquainted with a new Ministry, who consider me a little more than Irish
bishops do.

29. Now for your saucy, good dear letter: let me see, what does it
say? come then. I dined to-day with Ford, and went home early; he
debauched(8) me to his chamber again with a bottle of wine till twelve:
so good-night. I cannot write an answer now, you rogues.

30. To-day I have been visiting, which I had long neglected; and I dined
with Mrs. Barton alone; and sauntered at the Coffee-house till past
eight, and have been busy till eleven, and now I'll answer your letter,
saucebox. Well, let me see now again. My wax candle's almost out, but
however I'll begin. Well then, do not be so tedious, Mr. Presto;
what can you say to MD's letter? Make haste, have done with your
preambles--Why, I say I am glad you are so often abroad; your mother
thinks it is want of exercise hurts you, and so do I. (She called here
to-night, but I was not within, that's by the bye.) Sure you do not
deceive me, Stella, when you say you are in better health than you were
these three weeks; for Dr. Raymond told me yesterday, that Smyth of the
Blind Quay had been telling Mr. Leigh that he left you extremely ill;
and in short, spoke so, that he almost put poor Leigh into tears, and
would have made me run distracted; though your letter is dated the 11th
instant, and I saw Smyth in the city above a fortnight ago, as I passed
by in a coach. Pray, pray, don't write, Stella, until you are mighty,
mighty, mighty, mighty well in your eyes, and are sure it won't do you
the least hurt. Or come, I'll tell you what; you, Mistress Stella, shall
write your share at five or six sittings, one sitting a day; and then
comes Dingley all together, and then Stella a little crumb towards
the end, to let us see she remembers Presto; and then conclude with
something handsome and genteel, as your most humblecumdumble, or, etc.
O Lord! does Patrick write word of my not coming till spring? Insolent
man! he know my secrets? No; as my Lord Mayor said, No; if I thought my
shirt knew, etc. Faith, I will come as soon as it is any way proper for
me to come; but, to say the truth, I am at present a little involved
with the present Ministry in some certain things (which I tell you as a
secret); and soon as ever I can clear my hands, I will stay no longer;
for I hope the First-Fruit business will be soon over in all its forms.
But, to say the truth, the present Ministry have a difficult task,
and want me, etc. Perhaps they may be just as grateful as others:
but, according to the best judgment I have, they are pursuing the true
interest of the public; and therefore I am glad to contribute what is
in my power. For God's sake, not a word of this to any alive.--Your
Chancellor?(9) Why, madam, I can tell you he has been dead this
fortnight. Faith, I could hardly forbear our little language about a
nasty dead Chancellor, as you may see by the blot.(10) Ploughing? A pox
plough them; they'll plough me to nothing. But have you got your money,
both the ten pounds? How durst he pay you the second so soon? Pray be
good huswifes. Ay, well, and Joe, why, I had a letter lately from Joe,
desiring I would take some care of their poor town,(11) who, he says,
will lose their liberties. To which I desired Dr. Raymond would return
answer, that the town had behaved themselves so ill to me, so little
regarded the advice I gave them, and disagreed so much among themselves,
that I was resolved never to have more to do with them; but that
whatever personal kindness I could do to Joe, should be done. Pray, when
you happen to see Joe, tell him this, lest Raymond should have blundered
or forgotten--Poor Mrs. Wesley!--Why these poligyes(12) for being
abroad? Why should you be at home at all, until Stella is quite
well?--So, here is Mistress Stella again, wi