sired I would see him at
that hour. His business was that I would hoenlbp ihainm itavoi dsroanws
ubpl tohne sroegporaensiepnotlastoigobn,(36) which I consented to do;
but know not whether I shall succeed, because it is a little out of my
way. However, I have taken my share. Nite, MD.

22. I finished the rest of my letter to Lord Treasurer today, and sent
it to him about one o'clock; and then dined privately with my friend Mr.
Lewis, to talk over some affairs of moment. I had gotten the thirteenth
volume of Rymer's Collection of the Records of the Tower for the
University of Dublin.(37) I have two volumes now. I will write to the
Provost, to know how I shall send them to him; no, I won't, for I will
bring them myself among my own books. I was with Hanmer this morning,
and there were the Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer(38) very
busy with him, laying their heads together about the representation. I
went to Lord Masham's to-night, and Lady Masham made me read to her a
pretty twopenny pamphlet, called The St. Albans Ghost.(39) I thought I
had writ it myself; so did they; but I did not. Lord Treasurer came down
to us from the Queen, and we stayed till two o'clock. That is the best
night-place I have. The usual(40) company are Lord and Lady Masham, Lord
Treasurer, Dr. Arbuthnot, and I; sometimes the Secretary, and sometimes
Mrs. Hill of the bed-chamber, Lady Masham's sister. I assure oo, it im
vely rate now; but zis goes to-morrow: and I must have time to converse
with own richar MD. Nite, deelest sollahs.(41)

23. I have no news to tell you this last day, nor do I know where I
shall dine. I hear the Secretary is a little out of order; perhaps I may
dine there, perhaps not. I sent Hanmer what he wanted from me, I know
not how he will approve of it. I was to do more of the same sort; I am
going out, and must carry zis in my pottick to give it at some general
post-house. I will talk further with oo at night. I suppose in my next
I shall answer a letter from MD that will be sent me. On Tuesday it will
be four weeks since I had your last, N.26. This day se'nnight I expect
one, for that will be something more than a full month. Farewell, MD...
deelest... MD MD MD... ME ME ME... logues... lele.(42)




LETTER 42.(1)

LONDON, Feb. 23, 1711-12.

After having disposed my last letter in the post-office, I am now to
begin this with telling MD that I dined with the Secretary to-day,
who is much out of order with a cold, and feverish; yet he went to the
Cabinet Council tonight at six, against my will. The Secretary is much
the greatest commoner in England, and turns the whole Parliament, who
can do nothing without him; and if he lives and has his health, will,
I believe, be one day at the head of affairs. I have told him sometimes
that, if I were a dozen years younger, I would cultivate his favour,
and trust my fortune with his. But what care oo for all this? I am sorry
when I came first acquainted with this Ministry that I did not send you
their names and characters, and then you would have relished what(2)
I would have writ, especially if I had let you into the particulars of
affairs: but enough of this. Nite, deelest logues.

24. I went early this morning to the Secretary, who is not yet well.
Sir Thomas Hanmer and the Chancellor of the Exchequer came while I was
there, and he would not let me stir; so I did not go to church, but was
busy with them till noon, about the affair I told you in my last. The
other two went away; and I dined with the Secretary, and found my head
very much out of order, but no absolute fit; and I have not been well
all this day. It has shook me a little. I sometimes sit up very late
at Lord Masham's, and have writ much for several days past: but I will
amend both; for I have now very little business, and hope I shall have
no more, and I am resolved to be a great rider this summer in Ireland.
I was to see Mrs. Wesley this evening, who has been somewhat better for
this month past, and talks of returning to the Bath in a few weeks. Our
peace goes on but slowly; the Dutch are playing tricks, and we do not
push it strongly as we ought. The fault of our Court is delay, of which
the Queen has a great deal; and Lord Treasurer is not without his share.
But pay richar MD ret us know a little of your life and tonvelsasens.(3)
Do you play at ombre, or visit the Dean, and Goody Walls and Stoytes and
Manleys, as usual? I must have a letter from oo, to fill the other side
of this sheet. Let me know what you do. Is my aunt alive yet?

Oh, pray, now I think of it, be so kind to step to my aunt, and take
notice of my great-grandfather's picture; you know he has a ring on his
finger, with a seal of an anchor and dolphin about it; but I think
there is besides, at the bottom of the picture, the same coat of arms
quartered with another, which I suppose was my great-grandmother's.
If this be so, it is a stronger argument than the seal. And pray see
whether you think that coat of arms was drawn at the same time with
the picture, or whether it be of a later hand; and ask my aunt what
she knows about it. But perhaps there is no suc