. I must pick up time to answer this letter of MD's; I'll do it
in a day or two for certain.--I am glad I am not at Windsor, for it is
very cold, and I won't have a fire till November. I am contriving how to
stop up my grate with bricks. Patrick was drunk last night; but did
not come to me, else I should have given him t'other cuff. I sat this
evening with Mrs. Barton; it is the first day of her seeing company; but
I made her merry enough, and we were three hours disputing upon Whig and
Tory. She grieved for her brother only for form, and he was a sad
dog. Is Stella well enough to go to church, pray? no numbings left?
no darkness in your eyes? do you walk and exercise? Your exercise is
ombre.--People are coming up to town: the Queen will be at Hampton Court
in a week. Lady Betty Germaine, I hear, is come; and Lord Pembroke is
coming: his wife(9) is as big with child as she can tumble.

15. I sat at home till four this afternoon to-day writing, and ate a
roll and butter; then visited Will Congreve an hour or two, and supped
with Lord Treasurer, who came from Windsor to-day, and brought Prior
with him. The Queen has thanked Prior for his good service in France,
and promised to make him a Commissioner of the Customs. Several of that
Commission are to be out; among the rest, my friend Sir Matthew Dudley.
I can do nothing for him, he is so hated by the Ministry. Lord Treasurer
kept me till twelve, so I need not tell you it is now late.

16. I dined to-day with Mr. Secretary at Dr. Coatesworth's,(10) where he
now lodges till his house be got ready in Golden Square. One Boyer,(11)
a French dog, has abused me in a pamphlet, and I have got him up in
a messenger's hands: the Secretary promises me to swinge him. Lord
Treasurer told me last night that he had the honour to be abused with me
in a pamphlet. I must make that rogue an example, for warning to
others. I was to see Jack Hill this morning, who made that unfortunate
expedition; and there is still more misfortune; for that ship, which was
admiral of his fleet,(12) is blown up in the Thames, by an accident and
carelessness of some rogue, who was going, as they think, to steal some
gunpowder: five hundred men are lost. We don't yet know the particulars.
I am got home by seven, and am going to be busy, and you are going to
play and supper; you live ten times happier than I; but I should live
ten times happier than you if I were with MD. I saw Jemmy Leigh to-day
in the street, who tells me that Sterne has not lain above once these
three weeks in his lodgings, and he doubts he takes ill courses; he
stays only till he can find Sterne to go along with him, and he cannot
hear of him. I begged him to inquire about the box when he comes to
Chester, which he promises.

17. The Secretary and I dined to-day with Brigadier Britton,(13) a great
friend of his. The lady of the house is very gallant, about thirty-five;
she is said to have a great deal of wit; but I see nothing among any of
them that equals MD by a bar's length, as hope saved. My Lord Treasurer
is much out of order; he has a sore throat, and the gravel, and a pain
in his breast where the wound was: pray God preserve him. The Queen
comes to Hampton Court on Tuesday next; people are coming fast to town,
and I must answer MD's letter, which I can hardly find time to do,
though I am at home the greatest part of the day. Lady Betty Germaine
and I were disputing Whig and Tory to death this morning. She is grown
very fat, and looks mighty well. Biddy Floyd was there, and she is, I
think, very much spoiled with the smallpox.

18. Lord Treasurer is still out of order, and that breaks our method of
dining there to-day. He is often subject to a sore throat, and some time
or other it will kill him, unless he takes more care than he is apt to
do. It was said about the town that poor Lord Peterborow was dead at
Frankfort; but he is something better, and the Queen is sending him to
Italy, where I hope the warm climate will recover him: he has abundance
of excellent qualities, and we love one another mightily. I was this
afternoon in the City, ate a bit of meat, and settled some things with
a printer. I will answer your letter on Saturday, if possible, and then
send away this; so to fetch up the odd days I lost at Windsor, and keep
constant to my fortnight. Ombre time is now coming on, and we shall have
nothing but Manley, and Walls, and Stoytes, and the Dean. Have you got
no new acquaintance? Poor girls; nobody knows MD's good qualities.--'Tis
very cold; but I will not have a fire till November, that's pozz.--Well,
but coming home to-night, I found on my table a letter from MD; faith,
I was angry, that is, with myself; and I was afraid too to see MD's hand
so soon, for fear of something, I don't know what: at last I opened it,
and it was over well, and a bill for the two hundred guineas. However,
'tis a sad thing that this letter is not gone, nor your twenty-first
answered yet.

19. I was invited to-day to dine with Mrs. Van, with some company who
did not come; but I ate nothing but herrings; you must know I hardly
ever eat of above one thing, and