. So much for that. But you must have chat, and I must say every
sorry thing that comes into my head. They say the Queen will stay a
month longer at Windsor. These devils of Grub Street rogues, that write
the Flying Post and Medley in one paper,(8) will not be quiet. They are
always mauling Lord Treasurer, Lord Bolingbroke, and me. We have the dog
under prosecution, but Bolingbroke is not active enough; but I hope
to swinge him. He is a Scotch rogue, one Ridpath.(9) They get out upon
bail, and write on. We take them again, and get fresh bail; so it goes
round. They say some learned Dutchman has wrote a book, proving by
civil law that we do them wrong by this peace; but I shall show by plain
reason that we have suffered the wrong, and not they. I toil like a
horse, and have hundreds of letters still to read and squeeze a line out
of each, or at least the seeds of a line. Strafford goes back to Holland
in a day or two, and I hope our peace is very near. I have about thirty
pages more to write (that is, to be extracted), which will be sixty in
print. It is the most troublesome part of all, and I cannot keep myself
private, though I stole into a room up two pair of stairs, when I came
from Windsor; but my present man has not yet learned his lesson of
denying me discreetly.

30. The Duchess of Ormond found me out to-day, and made me dine with
her. Lady Masham is still expecting. She has had a cruel cold. I could
not finish my letter last post for the soul of me. Lord Bolingbroke has
had my papers these six weeks, and done nothing to them. Is Tisdall
yet in the world? I propose writing controversies, to get a name with
posterity. The Duke of Ormond will not be over these three or four
days. I desire to make him join with me in settling all right among our
people. I have ordered the Duchess to let me have an hour with the Duke
at his first coming, to give him a true state of persons and things.
I believe the Duke of Shrewsbury will hardly be declared your Governor
yet; at least, I think so now; but resolutions alter very often. The
Duke of Hamilton gave me a pound of snuff to-day, admirable good. I wish
DD had it, and Ppt too, if she likes it. It cost me a quarter of an hour
of his politics, which I was forced to hear. Lady Orkney(10) is making
me a writing-table of her own contrivance, and a bed nightgown. She is
perfectly kind, like a mother. I think the devil was in it the other
day, that I should talk to her of an ugly squinting cousin of hers, and
the poor lady herself, you know, squints like a dragon. The other day
we had a long discourse with her about love; and she told us a saying
of her sister Fitz-Hardinge,(11) which I thought excellent, that in men,
desire begets love, and in women, love begets desire. We have abundance
of our old criers(12) still hereabouts. I hear every morning your women
with the old satin and taffeta, etc., the fellow with old coats, suits
or cloaks. Our weather is abominable of late. We have not two tolerable
days in twenty. I have lost money again at ombre, with Lord Orkney
and others; yet, after all, this year I have lost but three-and-twenty
shillings; so that, considering card money, I am no loser.

Our Society hath not yet renewed their meetings. I hope we shall
continue to do some good this winter; and Lord Treasurer promises the
Academy for reforming our language shall soon go forward. I must now
go hunt those dry letter for materials. You will see something very
notable, I hope. So much for that. God Almighty bless you.




LETTER 55.(1)

LONDON, Nov. 15, 1712.

Before this comes to your hands, you will have heard of the most
terrible accident that hath almost ever happened. This morning, at
eight, my man brought me word that the Duke of Hamilton had fought
with Lord Mohun,(2) and killed him, and was brought home wounded.(3) I
immediately sent him to the Duke's house, in St. James's Square; but the
porter could hardly answer for tears, and a great rabble was about the
house. In short, they fought at seven this morning. The dog Mohun
was killed on the spot; and while(4) the Duke was over him, Mohun,
shortening his sword, stabbed him in at the shoulder to the heart. The
Duke was helped toward the cake-house by the Ring in Hyde Park (where
they fought), and died on the grass, before he could reach the house;
and was brought home in his coach by eight, while the poor Duchess(5)
was asleep. Maccartney,(6) and one Hamilton,(7) were the seconds, who
fought likewise, and are both fled. I am told that a footman of Lord
Mohun's stabbed the Duke of Hamilton; and some say Maccartney did so
too. Mohun gave the affront, and yet sent the challenge. I am infinitely
concerned for the poor Duke, who was a frank, honest, good-natured man.
I loved him very well, and I think he loved me better. He had(8) the
greatest mind in the world to have me go with him to France, but durst
not tell it me; and those he did, said I could not be spared, which
was true. They have removed the poor Duchess to a lodging in the
neighbourhood, where I have been with her two hours, and am just come
away. I never saw so melancholy a 