never
carry through this undertaking. God knows what will come of it. I should
be terribly vexed to see things come round again: it will ruin the
Church and clergy for ever; but I hope for better. I will send this on
Tuesday, whether I hear any further news of my affair or not.

29. Mr. Addison and I dined to-day with Lord Mountjoy; which is all the
adventures of this day.--I chatted a while to-night in the Coffee-house,
this being a full night; and now am come home, to write some business.

30. I dined to-day at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and sent a letter to poor Mrs.
Long,(33) who writes to us, but is God knows where, and will not tell
anybody the place of her residence. I came home early, and must go
write.

31. The month ends with a fine day; and I have been walking, and
visiting Lewis, and concerting where to see Mr. Harley. I have no news
to send you. Aire,(34) they say, is taken, though the Whitehall letters
this morning say quite the contrary: 'tis good, if it be true. I dined
with Mr. Addison and Dick Stewart, Lord Mountjoy's brother;(35) a treat
of Addison's. They were half-fuddled, but not I; for I mixed water with
my wine, and left them together between nine and ten; and I must send
this by the bellman, which vexes me, but I will put it off no longer.
Pray God it does not miscarry. I seldom do so; but I can put off little
MD no longer. Pray give the under note to Mrs. Brent.

I am a pretty gentleman; and you lose all your money at cards, sirrah
Stella. I found you out; I did so.

I am staying before I can fold up this letter, till that ugly D is dry
in the last line but one. Do not you see it? O Lord, I am loth to leave
you, faith--but it must be so, till the next time. Pox take that D; I
will blot it, to dry it.




LETTER 8.

LONDON, Oct. 31, 1710.

So, now I have sent my seventh to your fourth, young women; and now I
will tell you what I would not in my last, that this morning, sitting
in my bed, I had a fit of giddiness: the room turned round for about a
minute, and then it went off, leaving me sickish, but not very: and so I
passed the day as I told you; but I would not end a letter with telling
you this, because it might vex you: and I hope in God I shall have no
more of it. I saw Dr. Cockburn(1) to-day, and he promises to send me the
pills that did me good last year; and likewise has promised me an oil
for my ear, that he has been making for that ailment for somebody else.

Nov. 1. I wish MD a merry new year. You know this is the first day of
it with us.(2) I had no giddiness to-day; but I drank brandy, and have
bought a pint for two shillings. I sat up the night before my giddiness
pretty late, and writ very much; so I will impute it to that. But I
never eat fruit, nor drink ale; but drink better wine than you do, as I
did to-day with Mr. Addison at Lord Mountjoy's: then went at five to
see Mr. Harley, who could not see me for much company; but sent me his
excuse, and desired I would dine with him on Friday; and then I expect
some answer to this business, which must either be soon done, or begun
again; and then the Duke of Ormond and his people will interfere for
their honour, and do nothing. I came home at six, and spent my time in
my chamber, without going to the Coffee-house, which I grow weary of;
and I studied at leisure, writ not above forty lines, some inventions
of my own, and some hints, and read not at all, and this because I would
take care of Presto, for fear little MD should be angry.

2. I took my four pills last night, and they lay an hour in my throat,
and so they will do to-night. I suppose I could swallow four affronts
as easily. I dined with Dr. Cockburn to-day, and came home at seven; but
Mr. Ford has been with me till just now, and it is near eleven. I have
had no giddiness to-day. Mr. Dopping(3) I have seen; and he tells me
coldly, my "Shower" is liked well enough; there's your Irish judgment!
I writ this post to the Bishop of Clogher. It is now just a fortnight
since I heard from you. I must have you write once a fortnight, and then
I will allow for wind and weather. How goes ombre? Does Mrs. Walls(4)
win constantly, as she used to do? And Mrs. Stoyte;(5) I have not
thought of her this long time: how does she? I find we have a cargo of
Irish coming for London: I am sorry for it; but I never go near them.
And Tighe is landed; but Mrs. Wesley,(6) they say, is going home to her
husband, like a fool. Well, little monkeys mine, I must go write; and so
goodnight.

3. I ought to read these letters I write, after I have done; for,
looking over thus much, I found two or three literal mistakes, which
should not be when the hand is so bad. But I hope it does not puzzle
little Dingley to read, for I think I mend: but methinks, when I write
plain, I do not know how, but we are not alone, all the world can see
us. A bad scrawl is so snug, it looks like a PMD.(7) We have scurvy
Tatlers of late: so pray do not suspect me. I have one or two hints I
design to send him, and never any more: he does not deserve it. He is
governed by his wife most abominably,(8) as bad as ----. I never saw
her since I came; nor