olate and
spectacles before this comes to you.

3. Pshaw, I must be writing to these dear saucy brats every night,
whether I will or no, let me have what business I will, or come home
ever so late, or be ever so sleepy; but an old saying, and a true one,

     "Be you lords, or be you earls,
      You must write to naughty girls."

I was to-day at Court, and saw Raymond among the Beefeaters, staying to
see the Queen: so I put him in a better station, made two or three
dozen of bows, and went to church, and then to Court again, to pick up
a dinner, as I did with Sir John Stanley; and then we went to visit Lord
Mountjoy, and just now left him; and 'tis near eleven at night, young
women; and methinks this letter comes pretty near to the bottom, and
'tis but eight days since the date, and don't think I'll write on
the other side, I thank you for nothing. Faith, if I would use you to
letters on sheets as broad as this room, you would always expect them
from me. O, faith, I know you well enough; but an old saying, etc.,

     "Two sides in a sheet,
      And one in a street."

I think that's but a silly old saying; and so I'll go to sleep, and do
you so too.

4. I dined to-day with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and then came home, and studied
till eleven. No adventure at all to-day.

5. So I went to the Court of Requests (we have had the Devil and all of
rain by the bye) to pick up a dinner; and Henley made me go dine
with him and one Colonel Bragg(22) at a tavern; cost me money, faith.
Congreve was to be there, but came not. I came with Henley to the
Coffee-house, where Lord Salisbury(23) seemed mighty desirous to talk
with me; and, while he was wriggling himself into my favour, that dog
Henley asked me aloud, whether I would go to see Lord Somers as I had
promised (which was a lie); and all to vex poor Lord Salisbury, who is a
high Tory. He played two or three other such tricks; and I was forced
to leave my lord, and I came home at seven, and have been writing ever
since, and will now go to bed. The other day I saw Jack Temple(24) in
the Court of Requests: it was the first time of seeing him; so we talked
two or three careless words, and parted. Is it true that your Recorder
and Mayor, and fanatic aldermen, a month or two ago, at a solemn feast,
drank Mr. Harley's, Lord Rochester's,(25) and other Tory healths? Let me
know; it was confidently said here.--The scoundrels! It shan't do, Tom.

6. When is this letter to go, I wonder? harkee, young women, tell me
that. Saturday next for certain, and not before: then it will be just
a fortnight; time enough for naughty girls, and long enough for two
letters, faith. Congreve and Delaval have at last prevailed on Sir
Godfrey Kneller to entreat me to let him draw my picture for nothing;
but I know not yet when I shall sit.(26)--It is such monstrous rainy
weather, that there is no doing with it. Secretary St. John sent to me
this morning, that my dining with him to-day was put off till to-morrow;
so I peaceably sat with my neighbour Ford, dined with him, and came home
at six, and am now in bed as usual; and now it is time to have another
letter from MD, yet I would not have it till this goes; for that would
look like two letters for one. Is it not whimsical that the Dean has
never once written to me? And I find the Archbishop very silent to that
letter I sent him with an account that the business was done. I believe
he knows not what to write or say; and I have since written twice to
him, both times with a vengeance.(27) Well, go to bed, sirrahs, and so
will I. But have you lost to-day? Three shillings! O fie, O fie!

7. No, I won't send this letter to-day, nor till Saturday, faith; and I
am so afraid of one from MD between this and that; if it comes, I will
just say I received a letter, and that is all. I dined to-day with Mr.
Secretary St. John, where were Lord Anglesea,(28) Sir Thomas Hanmer,
Prior, Freind, etc., and then made a debauch after nine at Prior's
house, and have eaten cold pie, and I hate the thoughts of it, and I am
full, and I don't like it, and I will go to bed, and it is late, and so
good-night.

8. To-day I dined with Mr. Harley and Prior; but Mr. St. John did not
come, though he promised: he chid me for not seeing him oftener. Here is
a damned, libellous pamphlet come out against Lord Wharton, giving the
character first, and then telling some of his actions: the character is
very well, but the facts indifferent.(29) It has been sent by dozens to
several gentlemen's lodgings, and I had one or two of them; but nobody
knows the author or printer. We are terribly afraid of the plague; they
say it is at Newcastle.(30) I begged Mr. Harley for the love of God to
take some care about it, or we are all ruined. There have been orders
for all ships from the Baltic to pass their quarantine before they land;
but they neglect it. You remember I have been afraid these two years.

9. O, faith, you are a saucy rogue. I have had your sixth letter just
now, before this is gone; but I will not answer a word of it, only
that I never was giddy since my first fit; but I have had a cold just a
fortnight, a