t, oo see.
Fais, I don't conceal a bit, as hope saved.(14)

I(15) must purge and clyster after this; and my next letter will not
be in the old order of journal, till I have done with physic. An't oo
surprised to see a letter want half a side?




LETTER 45.(1)

LONDON, April 24, 1712.

I had your twenty-eighth two or three days ago. I can hardly answer it
now. Since my last I have been extremely ill. 'Tis this day just a month
since I felt a small pain on the tip of my left shoulder, which grew
worse, and spread for six days; then broke all out by my collar and left
side of my neck in monstrous red spots inflamed, and these grew to small
pimples. For four days I had no rest, nor nights, for a pain in my neck;
then I grew a little better; afterward, where my pains were, a cruel
itching seized me, beyond whatever I could imagine, and kept me awake
several nights. I rubbed it vehemently, but did not scratch it: then it
grew into three or four great sores like blisters, and run; at last I
advised the doctor to use it like a blister, so I did with melilot(2)
plasters, which still run: and am now in pain enough, but am daily
mending. I kept my chamber a fortnight, then went out a day or two, but
then confined myself again. Two days ago I went to a neighbour to dine,
but yesterday again kept at home. To-day I will venture abroad a little,
and hope to be well in a week or ten days. I never suffered so much in
my life. I have taken my breeches in above two inches, so I am leaner,
which answers one question in your letter. The weather is mighty fine.
I write in the morning, because I am better then. I will go and try
to walk a little. I will give DD's certificate to Tooke to-morrow.
Farewell, MD MD MD, ME ME, FW FW ME ME.




LETTER 46.(1)

LONDON, May 10, 1712.

I have not yet ease or humour enough to go on in my journal method,
though I have left my chamber these ten days. My pain continues still
in my shoulder and collar: I keep flannel on it, and rub it with brandy,
and take a nasty diet drink. I still itch terribly, and have some few
pimples; I am weak, and sweat; and then the flannel makes me mad with
itching; but I think my pain lessens. A journal, while I was sick,
would have been a noble thing, made up of pain and physic, visits, and
messages; the two last were almost as troublesome as the two first. One
good circumstance is that I am grown much leaner. I believe I told you
that I have taken in my breeches two inches. I had your N.29 last night.
In answer to your good opinion of my disease, the doctors said they
never saw anything so odd of the kind; they were not properly shingles,
but herpes miliaris, and twenty other hard names. I can never be sick
like other people, but always something out of the common way; and as
for your notion of its coming without pain, it neither came, nor
stayed, nor went without pain, and the most pain I ever bore in my life.
Medemeris(2) is retired in the country, with the beast her husband, long
ago. I thank the Bishop of Clogher for his proxy; I will write to him
soon. Here is Dilly's wife in town; but I have not seen her yet. No,
sinkerton:(3) 'tis not a sign of health, but a sign that, if it had not
come out, some terrible fit of sickness would have followed. I was at
our Society last Thursday, to receive a new member, the Chancellor of
the Exchequer;(4) but I drink nothing above wine and water. We shall
have a peace, I hope, soon, or at least entirely broke; but I believe
the first. My Letter to Lord Treasurer, about the English tongue,(5) is
now printing; and I suffer my name to be put at the end of it, which
I never did before in my life. The Appendix to the Third Part of John
Bull(6) was published yesterday; it is equal to the rest. I hope you
read John Bull. It was a Scotch gentleman,(7) a friend of mine, that
writ it; but they put it upon me. The Parliament will hardly be up
till June. We were like to be undone some days ago with a tack; but we
carried it bravely, and the Whigs came in to help us. Poor Lady Masham,
I am afraid, will lose her only son, about a twelvemonth old, with the
king's evil. I never would let Mrs. Fenton see me during my illness,
though she often came; but she has been once here since I recovered.
Bernage has been twice to see me of late. His regiment will be broke,
and he only upon half-pay; so perhaps he thinks he will want me again.
I am told here the Bishop of Clogher and family are coming over, but he
says nothing of it himself. I have been returning the visits of those
that sent howdees(8) in my sickness; particularly the Duchess of
Hamilton, who came and sat with me two hours. I make bargains with all
people that I dine with, to let me scrub my back against a chair; and
the Duchess of Ormond(9) was forced to bear it the other day. Many of
my friends are gone to Kensington, where the Queen has been removed for
some time. This is a long letter for a kick(10) body. I will begin the
next in the journal way, though my journals will be sorry ones. My left
hand is very weak, and trembles; but my right side has not been touched.

     This is a pitiful letter
    