 The
Whigs intended to have made a vote that would reflect on Lord Treasurer;
but their project was not ripe. I hit my face such a rap by calling the
coach to stop to-night, that it is plaguy sore, the bone beneath the
eye. Nite dee logues.

17. The Court was mighty full to-day, and has been these many Sundays;
but the Queen was not at chapel. She has got a little fit of the gout
in her foot. The good of going to Court is that one sees all one's
acquaintance, whom otherwise I should hardly meet twice a year. Prince
Eugene dines with the Secretary to-day, with about seven or eight
General Officers, or foreign Ministers. They will be all drunk, I am
sure. I never was in company with this Prince: I have proposed to some
lords that we should have a sober meal with him; but I can't compass
it. It is come over in the Dutch news prints that I was arrested on an
action of twenty thousand pounds by the Duke of Marlborough. I did not
like my Court invitation to-day; so Sir Andrew Fountaine and I went and
dined with Mrs. Van. I came home at six, and have been very busy till
this minute, and it is past twelve. So I got into bed to write to MD...
MD.(26) We reckon the Dauphin's death will put forward the peace a good
deal. Pray is Dr. Griffith(27) reconciled to me yet? Have I done enough
to soften him?... (28) Nite deelest logues.

18. Lewis had Guiscard's picture: he bought it, and offered it to Lord
Treasurer, who promised to send for it, but never did; so I made Lewis
give it me, and I have it in my room; and now Lord Treasurer says he
will take it from me: is that fair? He designs to have it at length in
the clothes he was when he did the action, and a penknife in his hand;
and Kneller is to copy it from this that I have. I intended to dine with
Lord Treasurer to-day, but he has put me off till to-morrow; so I dined
with Lord Dupplin. You know Lord Dupplin very well; he is a brother
of the Society. Well, but I have received a letter from the Bishop of
Cloyne, to solicit an affair for him with Lord Treasurer, and with the
Parliament, which I will do as soon as fly. I am not near so keen about
other people's affairs as... (29) Ppt used to reproach me about; it was
a judgment on me. Harkee, idle dearees both, meetinks I begin to want
a rettle flom(30) MD: faith, and so I do. I doubt you have been in pain
about the report of my being arrested. The pamphleteers have let me
alone this month, which is a great wonder: only the third part of the
Answer to the Conduct, which is lately come out. (Did I tell you of it
already?) The House of Commons goes on in mauling the late Ministry and
their proceedings. Nite deelest MD.(31)

19. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day, and sat with him till ten, in
spite of my teeth, though my printer waited for me to correct a sheet.
I told him of four lines I writ extempore with my pencil, on a bit
of paper in his house, while he lay wounded. Some of the servants, I
suppose, made waste-paper of them, and he never had heard of them. Shall
I tell them you? They were inscribed to Mr. Harley's physician. Thus

     On Britain Europe's safety lies;(32)
     Britain is lost, if Harley dies.
     Harley depends upon your skill:
     Think what you save, or what you kill.

Are not they well enough to be done off-hand; for that is the meaning
of the word extempore, which you did not know, did you? I proposed that
some company should dine with him on the 8th of March, which was the day
he was wounded, but he says he designs that the Lords of the Cabinet,
who then sat with him, should dine that day with him:(33) however, he
has invited me too. I am not got rid of my cold; it plagues me in the
morning chiefly. Nite, MD,

20. After waiting to catch the Secretary coming out from Sir Thomas
Hanmer, for two hours, in vain, about some business, I went into the
City to my printer, to correct some sheets of the Barrier Treaty and
Remarks, which must be finished to-morrow: I have been horrible busy for
some days past, with this and some other things; and I wanted some very
necessary papers, which the Secretary was to give me, and the pamphlet
must now be published without them. But they are all busy too.
Sir Thomas Hanmer is Chairman of the Committee for drawing up a
Representation of the state of the nation(34) to the Queen, where all
the wrong steps of the Allies and late Ministry about the war will be
mentioned. The Secretary, I suppose, was helping him about it to-day; I
believe it will be a pepperer. Nite, deel MD.

21. I have been six hours to-day morning writing nineteen pages of a
letter to Lord Treasurer, about forming a Society or Academy to correct
and fix the English language.(35) (Is English a speech or a language?)
It will not be above five or six more. I will send it to him to-morrow,
and will print it, if he desires me. I dined, you know, with our Society
to-day: Thursday is our day. We had a new member admitted; it was the
Duke of Beaufort. We had thirteen met: brother Ormond was not there, but
sent his excuse that Prince Eugene dined with him. I left them at seven,
being engaged to go to Sir Thomas Hanmer, who de