the acceptance of this marriage introduces many
puzzling circumstances, and makes it necessary to believe that during
the remainder of Stella's life Swift repeatedly spoke of his wife as a
friend, and of himself as one who had never married.(7) What right have
we to put aside Swift's plain and repeated statements? Moreover, his
attitude towards Vanessa for the remaining years of her life becomes
much more culpable if we are to believe that he had given Stella the
claim of a wife upon him.(8)

From 1719 onwards we have a series of poems to Stella, written chiefly
in celebration of her birthday. She was now thirty-eight (Swift says,
"Thirty-four--we shan't dispute a year or more"), and the verses abound
in laughing allusions to her advancing years and wasting form. Hers was
"an angel's face a little cracked," but all men would crowd to her door
when she was fourscore. His verses to her had always been

     "Without one word of Cupid's darts,
      Of killing eyes, or bleeding hearts;
      With friendship and esteem possessed,
      I ne'er admitted Love a guest."

Her only fault was that she could not bear the lightest touch of blame.
Her wit and sense, her loving care in illness--to which he owed that
fact that he was alive to say it--made her the "best pattern of true
friends." She replied, in lines written on Swift's birthday in 1721,
that she was his pupil and humble friend. He had trained her judgment
and refined her fancy and taste:--

     "You taught how I might youth prolong
      By knowing what was right and wrong;
      How from my heart to bring supplies
      Of lustre to my fading eyes;
      How soon a beauteous mind repairs
      The loss of changed or falling hairs;
      How wit and virtue from within
      Send out a smoothness o'er the skin
      Your lectures could my fancy fix,
      And I can please at thirty-six."

In 1723 Vanessa is said to have written to Stella or to Swift--there are
discrepancies in the versions given by Sheridan and Lord Orrery, both
of whom are unreliable--asking whether the report that they were married
was true. Swift, we are told, rode to Celbridge, threw down Vanessa's
letter in a great rage, and left without speaking a word.(9) Vanessa,
whose health had been failing for some time, died shortly afterwards,
having cancelled a will in Swift's favour. She left "Cadenus and
Vanessa" for publication, and when someone said that she must have been
a remarkable woman to inspire such a poem, Stella replied that it was
well known that the Dean could write finely upon a broomstick.

Soon after this tragedy Swift became engrossed in the Irish agitation
which led to the publication of the Drapier's Letters, and in 1726 he
paid a long-deferred visit to London, taking with him the manuscript
of Gulliver's Travels. While in England he was harassed by bad news of
Stella, who had been in continued ill-health for some years. His letters
to friends in Dublin show how greatly he suffered. To the Rev. John
Worrall he wrote, in a letter which he begged him to burn, "What you
tell me of Mrs. Johnson I have long expected with great oppression
and heaviness of heart. We have been perfect friends these thirty-five
years. Upon my advice they both came to Ireland, and have been ever
since my constant companions; and the remainder of my life will be a
very melancholy scene, when one of them is gone, whom I most esteemed,
upon the score of every good quality that can possibly recommend a human
creature." He would not for the world be present at her death: "I should
be a trouble to her, and a torment to myself." If Stella came to Dublin,
he begged that she might be lodged in some airy, healthy part, and not
in the Deanery, where too it would be improper for her to die. "There
is not a greater folly," he thinks, "than to contract too great and
intimate a friendship, which must always leave the survivor miserable."
To Dr. Stopford he wrote in similar terms of the "younger of the two"
"oldest and dearest friends I have in the world." "This was a person
of my own rearing and instructing from childhood, who excelled in every
good quality that can possibly accomplish a human creature.... I know
not what I am saying; but believe me that violent friendship is much
more lasting and as much engaging as violent love." To Dr. Sheridan he
said, "I look upon this to be the greatest event that can ever happen
to me; but all my preparation will not suffice to make me bear it like
a philosopher nor altogether like a Christian. There hath been the most
intimate friendship between us from our childhood, and the greatest
merit on her side that ever was in one human creature towards
another."(10) Pope alludes in a letter to Sheridan to the illness of
Swift's "particular friend," but with the exception of another reference
by Pope, and of a curiously flippant remark by Bolingbroke, the subject
is nowhere mentioned in Swift's correspondence with his literary and
fashionable friends in London.

Swift crossed to Ireland in August, fearing the worst; but Stella
rallied, and in the spring of 1727 he returned to London. In August,
h