eelest hearts and souls, MD.
Farewell MD MD MD FW FW FW ME ME Lele Lele Lele Sollahs lele.




LETTER 43.(1)

LONDON, March 8, 1711-12.

I carried my forty-second letter in my pocket till evening, and then put
it in the general post.--I went in the morning to see Lord Treasurer,
who had taken physic, and was drinking his broth. I had been with
the Secretary before, to recommend a friend, one Dr. Freind,(2) to
be Physician-General; and the Secretary promised to mention it to the
Queen. I can serve everybody but myself. Then I went to Court, and
carried Lord Keeper and the Secretary to dine with Lord Masham, when we
drank the Queen and Lord Treasurer with every health, because this was
the day of his stabbing.--Then I went and played pools at picquet with
Lady Masham and Mrs. Hill; won ten shillings, gave a crown to the
box, and came home. I met at my lodgings a letter from Joe, with a bit
annexed from Ppt. What Joe asks is entirely out of my way, and I take it
for a foolish whim in him. Besides, I know not who is to give a patent:
if the Duke of Ormond, I would speak to him; and if it come in my head
I will mention it to Ned Southwell. They have no patents that I know
of for such things here, but good security is all; and to think that I
would speak to Lord Treasurer for any such matter at random is a jest.
Did I tell you of a race of rakes, called the Mohocks,(3) that play the
devil about this town every night, slit people's noses, and beat them,
etc.? Nite, sollahs, and rove Pdfr. Nite, MD.

9. I was at Court to-day, and nobody invited me to dinner, except one or
two, whom I did not care to dine with; so I dined with Mrs. Van. Young
Davenant(4) was telling us at Court how he was set upon by the Mohocks,
and how they ran his chair through with a sword. It is not safe being in
the streets at night for them. The Bishop of Salisbury's son(5) is said
to be of the gang. They are all Whigs; and a great lady sent to me, to
speak to her father and to Lord Treasurer, to have a care of them,
and to be careful likewise of myself; for she heard they had malicious
intentions against the Ministers and their friends. I know not whether
there be anything in this, though others are of the same opinion. The
weather still continues very fine and frosty. I walked in the Park this
evening, and came home early to avoid the Mohocks. Lord Treasurer is
better. Nite, my own two deelest MD.

10. I went this morning again to the Lord Treasurer, who is quite
recovered; and I stayed till he went out. I dined with a friend in the
City, about a little business of printing; but not my own. You must buy
a small twopenny pamphlet, called Law is a Bottomless Pit.(6) 'Tis very
prettily written, and there will be a Second Part. The Commons are very
slow in bringing in their Bill to limit the press, and the pamphleteers
make good use of their time; for there come out three or four every day.
Well, but is not it time, methinks, to have a letter from MD? 'Tis
now six weeks since I had your Number 26. I can assure oo I expect
one before this goes; and I'll make shorter day's journals than usual,
'cause I hope to fill up a good deal of t'other side with my answer.
Our fine weather lasts yet, but grows a little windy. We shall have rain
soon, I dispose. Go to cards, sollahs, and I to seep. Nite, MD.

11. Lord Treasurer has lent the long letter I writ him(7) to Prior, and
I can't get Prior to return it. I want to have it printed, and to make
up this Academy for the improvement of our language. Faith, we never
shall improve it so much as FW has done; sall we? No, faith, ourrichar
gangridge.(8) I dined privately with my friend Lewis, and then went to
see Ned Southwell, and talk with him about Walls's business, and Mrs.
South's. The latter will be done; but his own not. Southwell tells
me that it must be laid before Lord Treasurer, and the nature of it
explained, and a great deal of clutter, which is not worth the while;
and maybe Lord Treasurer won't do it (at) last; and it is, as Walls
says himself, not above forty shillings a year difference. You must tell
Walls this, unless he would have the business a secret from you: in
that case only say I did all I could with Ned Southwell, and it can't be
done; for it must be laid before Lord Treasurer, etc., who will not do
it; and besides, it is not worth troubling his lordship. So nite, my two
deelest nuntyes nine MD.(9)

12. Here is the D---- and all to do with these Mohocks. Grub Street
papers about them fly like lightning, and a list printed of near eighty
put into several prisons, and all a lie; and I begin almost to think
there is no truth, or very little, in the whole story. He that abused
Davenant was a drunken gentleman; none of that gang. My man tells me
that one of the lodgers heard in a coffee-house, publicly, that one
design of the Mohocks was upon me, if they could catch me; and though I
believe nothing of it, I forbear walking late, and they have put me to
the charge of some shillings already. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer
and two gentlemen of the Highlands of Scotland, yet very polite men.
I sat there till 