 do. I hope he will take it well. My advice was, to keep as much in
favour as possible with Sir Thomas Frankland, his master here.

26. Smoke how I widen the margin by lying in bed when I write. My bed
lies on the wrong side for me, so that I am forced often to write when
I am up. Manley, you must know, has had people putting in for his place
already; and has been complained of for opening letters. Remember that
last Sunday, September 24, 1710, was as hot as midsummer. This was
written in the morning; it is now night, and Presto in bed. Here's a
clutter, I have gotten MD's second letter, and I must answer it here.
I gave the bill to Tooke, and so--Well, I dined to-day with Sir John
Holland the Comptroller, and sat with him till eight; then came home,
and sent my letters, and writ part of a lampoon,(10) which goes on very
slow: and now I am writing to saucy MD; no wonder, indeed, good boys
must write to naughty girls. I have not seen your mother yet; my
penny-post letter, I suppose, miscarried: I will write another. Mr.
S---- came to see me; and said M---- was going to the country next
morning with her husband (who I find is a surly brute); so I could only
desire my service to her.

27. To-day all our company dined at Will Frankland's, with Steele and
Addison too. This is the first rainy day since I came to town; I cannot
afford to answer your letter yet. Morgan,(11) the puppy, writ me a long
letter, to desire I would recommend him for purse-bearer or secretary to
the next Lord Chancellor that would come with the next Governor. I
will not answer him; but beg you will say these words to his father
Raymond,(12) or anybody that will tell him: That Dr. Swift has received
his letter; and would be very ready to serve him, but cannot do it in
what he desires, because he has no sort of interest in the persons to
be applied to. These words you may write, and let Joe, or Mr.
Warburton,(13) give them to him: a pox on him! However, it is by these
sort of ways that fools get preferment. I must not end yet, because I
cannot say good-night without losing a line, and then MD would scold;
but now, good-night.

28. I have the finest piece of Brazil tobacco for Dingley that ever
was born.(14) You talk of Leigh; why, he won't be in Dublin these two
months: he goes to the country, then returns to London, to see how the
world goes here in Parliament. Good-night, sirrahs; no, no, not night;
I writ this in the morning, and looking carelessly I thought it had
been of last night. I dined to-day with Mrs. Barton(15) alone at her
lodgings; where she told me for certain, that Lady S---- was with
child when she was last in England, and pretended a tympany, and saw
everybody; then disappeared for three weeks, her tympany was gone, and
she looked like a ghost, etc. No wonder she married when she was so ill
at containing. Connolly(16) is out; and Mr. Roberts in his place, who
loses a better here, but was formerly a Commissioner in Ireland. That
employment cost Connolly three thousand pounds to Lord Wharton; so he
has made one ill bargain in his life.

29. I wish MD a merry Michaelmas. I dined with Mr. Addison, and Jervas
the painter, at Addison's country place; and then came home, and writ
more to my lampoon. I made a Tatler since I came: guess which it is, and
whether the Bishop of Clogher smokes it. I saw Mr. Sterne(17) to-day: he
will do as you order, and I will give him chocolate for Stella's health.
He goes not these three weeks. I wish I could send it some other way.
So now to your letter, brave boys. I don't like your way of saving
shillings: nothing vexes me but that it does not make Stella a coward
in a coach.(18) I don't think any lady's advice about my ear signifies
twopence: however I will, in compliance to you, ask Dr. Cockburn.
Radcliffe(19) I know not, and Barnard(20) I never see. Walls will
certainly be stingier for seven years, upon pretence of his robbery. So
Stella puns again; why, 'tis well enough; but I'll not second it,
though I could make a dozen: I never thought of a pun since I left
Ireland.--Bishop of Clogher's bill? Why, he paid it to me; do you think
I was such a fool to go without it? As for the four shillings, I will
give you a bill on Parvisol for it on t'other side of this paper; and
pray tear off the two letters I shall write to him and Joe, or let
Dingley transcribe and send them; though that to Parvisol, I believe, he
must have my hand for. No, no, I'll eat no grapes; I ate about six
the other day at Sir John Holland's; but would not give sixpence for a
thousand, they are so bad this year. Yes, faith, I hope in God Presto
and MD will be together this time twelvemonth. What then? Last year I
suppose I was at Laracor; but next I hope to eat my Michaelmas goose
at my two little gooses' lodgings. I drink no aile (I suppose you mean
ale); but yet good wine every day, of five and six shillings a bottle.
O Lord, how much Stella writes! pray don't carry that too far, young
women, but be temperate, to hold out. To-morrow I go to Mr. Harley.(21)
Why, small hopes from the Duke of Ormond: he loves me very well, I
believe, and would, in