
appointed to meet a gentleman at the Secretary's to-night, and they both
failed. The House of Commons have this day made many severe votes about
our being abused by our Allies. Those who spoke drew all their arguments
from my book, and their votes confirm all I writ; the Court had a
majority of a hundred and fifty: all agree that it was my book that
spirited them to these resolutions; I long to see them in print. My head
has not been as well as I could wish it for some days past, but I have
not had any giddy fit, and I hope it will go over.

5. The Secretary turned me out of his room this morning, and showed me
fifty guineas rolled up, which he was going to give some French spy. I
dined with four Irishmen at a tavern to-day: I thought I had resolved
against it before, but I broke it. I played at cards this evening at
Lady Masham's, but I only played for her while she was waiting; and I
won her a pool, and supped there. Lord Treasurer was with us, but went
away before twelve. The ladies and lords have all their clothes ready
against to-morrow: I saw several mighty fine, and I hope there will be
a great appearance, in spite of that spiteful French fashion of the
Whiggish ladies not to come, which they have all resolved to a woman;
and I hope it will more spirit the Queen against them for ever.

6. I went to dine at Lord Masham's at three, and met all the company
just coming out of Court; a mighty crowd: they stayed long for their
coaches: I had an opportunity of seeing several lords and ladies of my
acquaintance in their fineries. Lady Ashburnham(18) looked the best in
my eyes. They say the Court was never fuller nor finer. Lord Treasurer,
his lady, and two daughters and Mrs. Hill, dined with Lord and Lady
Masham; the five ladies were monstrous fine. The Queen gave Prince
Eugene the diamond sword to-day; but nobody was by when she gave it
except my Lord Chamberlain. There was an entertainment of opera songs
at night, and the Queen was at all the entertainment, and is very well
after it. I saw Lady Wharton,(19) as ugly as the devil, coming out
in the crowd all in an undress; she has been with the Marlborough
daughters(20) and Lady Bridgewater(21) in St. James's, looking out of
the window all undressed to see the sight. I do not hear that one Whig
lady was there, except those of the bed-chamber. Nothing has made so
great a noise as one Kelson's chariot, that cost nine hundred and thirty
pounds, the finest was ever seen. The rabble huzzaed him as much as they
did Prince Eugene. This is Birthday chat.

7. Our Society met to-day: the Duke of Ormond was not with us; we
have lessened our dinners, which were grown so extravagant that Lord
Treasurer and everybody else cried shame. I left them at seven, visited
for an hour, and then came home, like a good boy. The Queen is much
better after yesterday's exercise: her friends wish she would use a
little more. I opposed Lord Jersey's(22) election into our Society, and
he is refused: I likewise opposed the Duke of Beaufort; but I believe
he will be chosen in spite of me: I don't much care; I shall not be
with them above two months; for I resolve to set out for Ireland the
beginning of April next (before I treat them again), and see my willows.

8. I dined to-day in the City. This morning a scoundrel dog, one of the
Queen's music, a German, whom I had never seen, got access to me in my
chamber by Patrick's folly, and gravely desired me to get an employment
in the Customs for a friend of his, who would be very grateful; and
likewise to forward a project of his own, for raising ten thousand
pounds a year upon operas: I used him civiller than he deserved; but it
vexed me to the pluck.(23) He was told I had a mighty interest with Lord
Treasurer, and one word of mine, etc. Well; I got home early on purpose
to answer MD's letter, N.26; for this goes to-morrow.--Well; I never saw
such a letter in all my life; so saucy, so journalish, so sanguine, so
pretending, so everything. I satisfied all your fears in my last: all is
gone well, as you say; yet you are an impudent slut to be so positive;
you will swagger so upon your sagacity that we shall never have done.
Pray don't mislay your reply; I would certainly print it, if I had it
here: how long is it? I suppose half a sheet: was the answer written in
Ireland? Yes, yes, you shall have a letter when you come from Ballygall.
I need not tell you again who's out and who's in: we can never get out
the Duchess of Somerset.--So, they say Presto writ the Conduct, etc. Do
they like it? I don't care whether they do or no; but the resolutions
printed t'other day in the Votes are almost quotations from it, and
would never have passed if that book had not been written. I will not
meddle with the Spectator, let him fair-sex it to the world's end.
My disorder is over, but blood was not from the p-les.--Well, Madam
Dingley, the frost; why, we had a great frost, but I forget how long
ago; it lasted above a week or ten days: I believe about six weeks ago;
but it did not break so soon with us, I think, as December 29; yet I
think it was about that time, on second thoug