yesterday, that foreseeing I should never dine again with
Sir Simon Harcourt, Knight, and Robert Harley, Esq., I was resolved to
do it to-day. The jest is, that before Saturday(1) next we expect they
will be lords; for Mr. Harley's patent is drawing, to be Earl of Oxford.
Mr. Secretary and I came away at seven, and he brought me to our town's
end in his coach; so I lost my walk. St. John read my letter to the
company, which was all raillery, and passed purely.

13. It rained all last night and this morning as heavy as lead; but I
just got fair weather to walk to town before church. The roads are all
over in deep puddle. The hay of our town is almost fit to be mowed. I
went to Court after church (as I always do on Sundays), and then dined
with Mr. Secretary, who has engaged me for every Sunday; and poor MD
dined at home upon a bit of veal and a pint of wine. Is it not plaguy
insipid to tell you every day where I dine? yet now I have got into
the way of it, I cannot forbear it neither. Indeed, Mr. Presto, you had
better go answer MD's letter, N.14. I will answer it when I please,
Mr. Doctor. What is that you say? The Court was very full this morning,
expecting Mr. Harley would be declared Earl of Oxford and have the
Treasurer's staff. Mr. Harley never comes to Court at all; somebody
there asked me the reason. "Why," said I, "the Lord of Oxford knows." He
always goes to the Queen by the back stairs. I was told for certain, you
jackanapes, Lord Santry(2) was dead, Captain Cammock(3) assured me so;
and now he's alive again, they say; but that shan't do: he shall be dead
to me as long as he lives. Dick Tighe(4) and I meet, and never stir our
hats. I am resolved to mistake him for Witherington, the little nasty
lawyer that came up to me so sternly at the Castle the day I left
Ireland. I'll ask the gentleman I saw walking with him how long
Witherington has been in town.

14. I went to town to-day by water. The hail quite discouraged me from
walking, and there is no shade in the greatest part of the way. I took
the first boat, and had a footman my companion; then I went again
by water, and dined in the City with a printer, to whom I carried a
pamphlet in manuscript, that Mr. Secretary gave me. The printer sent it
to the Secretary for his approbation, and he desired me to look it over,
which I did, and found it a very scurvy piece. The reason I tell you so,
is because it was done by your parson Slap, Scrap, Flap (what d'ye call
him), Trapp,(5) your Chancellor's chaplain. 'Tis called A Character of
the Present Set of Whigs, and is going to be printed, and no doubt the
author will take care to produce it in Ireland. Dr. Freind was with me,
and pulled out a twopenny pamphlet just published, called The State of
Wit,(6) giving a character of all the papers that have come out of late.
The author seems to be a Whig, yet he speaks very highly of a paper
called the Examiner, and says the supposed author of it is Dr. Swift.
But above all things he praises the Tatlers and Spectators; and I
believe Steele and Addison were privy to the printing of it. Thus is one
treated by these impudent dogs. And that villain Curll(7) has scraped
up some trash, and calls it Dr. Swift's Miscellanies, with the name at
large: and I can get no satisfaction of him. Nay, Mr. Harley told me
he had read it, and only laughed at me before Lord Keeper and the
rest. Since I came home, I have been sitting with the Prolocutor, Dean
Atterbury, who is my neighbour over the way, but generally keeps in town
with his Convocation. 'Tis late, etc.

15. My walk to town to-day was after ten, and prodigiously hot. I dined
with Lord Shelburne, and have desired Mrs. Pratt, who lodges there, to
carry over Mrs. Walls's tea; I hope she will do it, and they talk of
going in a fortnight. My way is this: I leave my best gown and periwig
at Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, then walk up the Pall Mall, through the Park, out
at Buckingham House, and so to Chelsea a little beyond the church: I set
out about sunset, and get here in something less than an hour; it is two
good miles, and just five thousand seven hundred and forty-eight steps;
so there is four miles a day walking, without reckoning what I walk
while I stay in town. When I pass the Mall in the evening, it is
prodigious to see the number of ladies walking there; and I always cry
shame at the ladies of Ireland, who never walk at all, as if their legs
were of no use, but to be laid aside. I have been now almost three
weeks here, and I thank God, am much better in my head, if it does but
continue. I tell you what, if I was with you, when we went to Stoyte at
Donnybrook, we would only take a coach to the hither end of Stephen's
Green, and from thence go every step on foot, yes, faith, every step;
it would do DD(8) good as well as Presto.(9) Everybody tells me I
look better already; for, faith, I looked sadly, that is certain. My
breakfast is milk porridge: I do not love it; faith, I hate it, but
it is cheap and wholesome; and I hate to be obliged to either of those
qualities for anything.(10)

16. I wonder why Presto will be so tedious in answering MD's l