 you have received my
letters, but do not tell the number.

25. I was this day dining in the City with very insignificant, low, and
scurvy company. I had a letter from the Archbishop of Dublin, with a
long denial of the report raised on him,(11) which yet has been since
assured to me from those who say they have it from the first hand; but
I cannot believe them. I will show it to the Secretary to-morrow. I will
not answer yours till I get to Chelsea.

26. Chelsea. I have sent two boxes of lumber to my friend Darteneuf's
house, and my chest of Florence and other things to Mrs. Vanhomrigh,
where I dined to-day. I was this morning with the Secretary, and showed
him the Archbishop's letter, and convinced him of his Grace's innocence,
and I will do the same to Mr. Harley. I got here in the stage-coach with
Patrick and my portmanteau for sixpence, and pay six shillings a week
for one silly room with confounded coarse sheets.(12) We have had such a
horrible deal of rain, that there is no walking to London, and I must go
as I came until it mends; and besides the whelp has taken my lodging as
far from London as this town could afford, at least half a mile farther
than he need; but I must be content. The best is, I lodge just over
against Dr. Atterbury's house, and yet perhaps I shall not like the
place the better for that. Well, I will stay till to-morrow before I
answer your letter; and you must suppose me always writing at Chelsea
from henceforward, till I alter, and say London. This letter goes on
Saturday, which will be just a fortnight; so go and cheat Goody Stoyte,
etc.

27. Do you know that I fear my whole chest of Florence is turned sour,
at least the two first flasks were so, and hardly drinkable. How plaguy
unfortunate am I! and the Secretary's own is the best I ever tasted;
and I must not tell him, but be as thankful as if it were the best in
Christendom. I went to town in the sixpenny stage to-day; and hearing
Mr. Harley was not at home, I went to see him, because I knew by the
message of his lying porter that he was at home. He was very well, and
just going out, but made me promise to dine with him; and betwixt
that and indeed strolling about, I lost four pound seven shillings
at play--with a--a--a--bookseller, and got but about half a dozen
books.(13) I will buy no more books now, that's certain. Well, I
dined at Mr. Harley's, came away at six, shifted my gown, cassock, and
periwig, and walked hither to Chelsea, as I always design to do when
it is fair. I am heartily sorry to find my friend the Secretary stand
a little ticklish with the rest of the Ministry; there have been one or
two disobliging things that have happened, too long to tell: and t'other
day in Parliament, upon a debate of about thirty-five millions that have
not been duly accounted for, Mr. Secretary, in his warmth of speech,
and zeal for his friend Mr. Brydges,(14) on whom part of the blame
was falling, said he did not know that either Mr. Brydges or the late
Ministry were at all to blame in this matter; which was very desperately
spoken, and giving up the whole cause: for the chief quarrel against the
late Ministry was the ill management of the treasure, and was more than
all the rest together. I had heard of this matter: but Mr. Foley(15)
beginning to discourse to-day at table, without naming Mr. St. John, I
turned to Mr. Harley, and said if the late Ministry were not to blame
in that article, he (Mr. Harley) ought to lose his head for putting the
Queen upon changing them. He made it a jest; but by some words dropped,
I easily saw that they take things ill of Mr. St. John; and by some
hints given me from another hand that I deal with, I am afraid the
Secretary will not stand long. This is the fate of Courts. I will, if I
meet Mr. St. John alone on Sunday, tell him my opinion, and beg him to
set himself right, else the consequences may be very bad; for I see
not how they can well want him neither, and he would make a troublesome
enemy. But enough of politics.

28. Morning. I forgot to tell you that Mr. Harley asked me yesterday how
he came to disoblige the Archbishop of Dublin. Upon which (having not
his letter about me) I told him what the Bishop had written to me on
that subject,(16) and desired I might read him the letter some other
time. But after all, from what I have heard from other hands, I am
afraid the Archbishop is a little guilty. Here is one Brent Spencer, a
brother of Mr. Proby's,(17) who affirms it, and says he has leave to do
so from Charles Dering,(18) who heard the words; and that Ingoldsby,(19)
abused the Archbishop, etc. Well, but now for your saucy letter: I have
no room to answer it; O yes, enough on t'other side. Are you no sicker?
Stella jeers Presto for not coming over by Christmas; but indeed Stella
does not jeer, but reproach, poor poor Presto. And how can I come away
and the First-Fruits not finished? I am of opinion the Duke of Ormond
will do nothing in them before he goes, which will be in a fortnight,
they say; and then they must fall to me to be done in his absence.
No, indeed, I have nothing to print: you know they have