the spot, and we left the doctor endeavouring
to recover him, by the same operation.

I visited many other apartments, but shall not trouble my reader with all
the curiosities I observed, being studious of brevity.

I had hitherto seen only one side of the academy, the other being
appropriated to the advancers of speculative learning, of whom I shall
say something, when I have mentioned one illustrious person more, who is
called among them “the universal artist.”  He told us “he had been thirty
years employing his thoughts for the improvement of human life.”  He had
two large rooms full of wonderful curiosities, and fifty men at work.
Some were condensing air into a dry tangible substance, by extracting the
nitre, and letting the aqueous or fluid particles percolate; others
softening marble, for pillows and pin-cushions; others petrifying the
hoofs of a living horse, to preserve them from foundering.  The artist
himself was at that time busy upon two great designs; the first, to sow
land with chaff, wherein he affirmed the true seminal virtue to be
contained, as he demonstrated by several experiments, which I was not
skilful enough to comprehend.  The other was, by a certain composition of
gums, minerals, and vegetables, outwardly applied, to prevent the growth
of wool upon two young lambs; and he hoped, in a reasonable time to
propagate the breed of naked sheep, all over the kingdom.

We crossed a walk to the other part of the academy, where, as I have
already said, the projectors in speculative learning resided.

The first professor I saw, was in a very large room, with forty pupils
about him.  After salutation, observing me to look earnestly upon a
frame, which took up the greatest part of both the length and breadth of
the room, he said, “Perhaps I might wonder to see him employed in a
project for improving speculative knowledge, by practical and mechanical
operations.  But the world would soon be sensible of its usefulness; and
he flattered himself, that a more noble, exalted thought never sprang in
any other man’s head.  Every one knew how laborious the usual method is
of attaining to arts and sciences; whereas, by his contrivance, the most
ignorant person, at a reasonable charge, and with a little bodily labour,
might write books in philosophy, poetry, politics, laws, mathematics, and
theology, without the least assistance from genius or study.”  He then
led me to the frame, about the sides, whereof all his pupils stood in
ranks.  It was twenty feet square, placed in the middle of the room.  The
superfices was composed of several bits of wood, about the bigness of a
die, but some larger than others.  They were all linked together by
slender wires.  These bits of wood were covered, on every square, with
paper pasted on them; and on these papers were written all the words of
their language, in their several moods, tenses, and declensions; but
without any order.  The professor then desired me “to observe; for he was
going to set his engine at work.”  The pupils, at his command, took each
of them hold of an iron handle, whereof there were forty fixed round the
edges of the frame; and giving them a sudden turn, the whole disposition
of the words was entirely changed.  He then commanded six-and-thirty of
the lads, to read the several lines softly, as they appeared upon the
frame; and where they found three or four words together that might make
part of a sentence, they dictated to the four remaining boys, who were
scribes.  This work was repeated three or four times, and at every turn,
the engine was so contrived, that the words shifted into new places, as
the square bits of wood moved upside down.

                           [Picture: The frame]

Six hours a day the young students were employed in this labour; and the
professor showed me several volumes in large folio, already collected, of
broken sentences, which he intended to piece together, and out of those
rich materials, to give the world a complete body of all arts and
sciences; which, however, might be still improved, and much expedited, if
the public would raise a fund for making and employing five hundred such
frames in Lagado, and oblige the managers to contribute in common their
several collections.

He assured me “that this invention had employed all his thoughts from his
youth; that he had emptied the whole vocabulary into his frame, and made
the strictest computation of the general proportion there is in books
between the numbers of particles, nouns, and verbs, and other parts of
speech.”

I made my humblest acknowledgment to this illustrious person, for his
great communicativeness; and promised, “if ever I had the good fortune to
return to my native country, that I would do him justice, as the sole
inventor of this wonderful machine;” the form and contrivance of which I
desired leave to delineate on paper, as in the figure here annexed.  I
told him, “although it were the custom of our learned in Europe to steal
inventions from each other, who had thereby at least this advantage, that
it became a controversy which was the right owner; yet I would take such
c