s a matter of diversion to my master and his family, as well as of
mortification to myself.  For now I could no longer deny that I was a
real _Yahoo_ in every limb and feature, since the females had a natural
propensity to me, as one of their own species.  Neither was the hair of
this brute of a red colour (which might have been some excuse for an
appetite a little irregular), but black as a sloe, and her countenance
did not make an appearance altogether so hideous as the rest of her kind;
for I think she could not be above eleven years old.

Having lived three years in this country, the reader, I suppose, will
expect that I should, like other travellers, give him some account of the
manners and customs of its inhabitants, which it was indeed my principal
study to learn.

As these noble _Houyhnhnms_ are endowed by nature with a general
disposition to all virtues, and have no conceptions or ideas of what is
evil in a rational creature, so their grand maxim is, to cultivate
reason, and to be wholly governed by it.  Neither is reason among them a
point problematical, as with us, where men can argue with plausibility on
both sides of the question, but strikes you with immediate conviction; as
it must needs do, where it is not mingled, obscured, or discoloured, by
passion and interest.  I remember it was with extreme difficulty that I
could bring my master to understand the meaning of the word opinion, or
how a point could be disputable; because reason taught us to affirm or
deny only where we are certain; and beyond our knowledge we cannot do
either.  So that controversies, wranglings, disputes, and positiveness,
in false or dubious propositions, are evils unknown among the
_Houyhnhnms_.  In the like manner, when I used to explain to him our
several systems of natural philosophy, he would laugh, “that a creature
pretending to reason, should value itself upon the knowledge of other
people’s conjectures, and in things where that knowledge, if it were
certain, could be of no use.”  Wherein he agreed entirely with the
sentiments of Socrates, as Plato delivers them; which I mention as the
highest honour I can do that prince of philosophers.  I have often since
reflected, what destruction such doctrine would make in the libraries of
Europe; and how many paths of fame would be then shut up in the learned
world.

Friendship and benevolence are the two principal virtues among the
_Houyhnhnms_; and these not confined to particular objects, but universal
to the whole race; for a stranger from the remotest part is equally
treated with the nearest neighbour, and wherever he goes, looks upon
himself as at home.  They preserve decency and civility in the highest
degrees, but are altogether ignorant of ceremony.  They have no fondness
for their colts or foals, but the care they take in educating them
proceeds entirely from the dictates of reason.  And I observed my master
to show the same affection to his neighbour’s issue, that he had for his
own.  They will have it that nature teaches them to love the whole
species, and it is reason only that makes a distinction of persons, where
there is a superior degree of virtue.

When the matron _Houyhnhnms_ have produced one of each sex, they no
longer accompany with their consorts, except they lose one of their issue
by some casualty, which very seldom happens; but in such a case they meet
again; or when the like accident befalls a person whose wife is past
bearing, some other couple bestow on him one of their own colts, and then
go together again until the mother is pregnant.  This caution is
necessary, to prevent the country from being overburdened with numbers.
But the race of inferior _Houyhnhnms_, bred up to be servants, is not so
strictly limited upon this article: these are allowed to produce three of
each sex, to be domestics in the noble families.

In their marriages, they are exactly careful to choose such colours as
will not make any disagreeable mixture in the breed.  Strength is chiefly
valued in the male, and comeliness in the female; not upon the account of
love, but to preserve the race from degenerating; for where a female
happens to excel in strength, a consort is chosen, with regard to
comeliness.

Courtship, love, presents, jointures, settlements have no place in their
thoughts, or terms whereby to express them in their language.  The young
couple meet, and are joined, merely because it is the determination of
their parents and friends; it is what they see done every day, and they
look upon it as one of the necessary actions of a reasonable being.  But
the violation of marriage, or any other unchastity, was never heard of;
and the married pair pass their lives with the same friendship and mutual
benevolence, that they bear to all others of the same species who come in
their way, without jealousy, fondness, quarrelling, or discontent.

In educating the youth of both sexes, their method is admirable, and
highly deserves our imitation.  These are not suffered to taste a grain
of oats, except upon certain days, till eighteen years old; nor milk, but
very rarely; and in summer they graze