trade was dead, etc. She says she will write to
you soon. I design to engage Ben Tooke, and then receive the parchment
from her.--I gave Mr. Dopping a copy of Prior's verses on Mr. Harley; he
sent them yesterday to Ireland, so go look for them, for I won't be at
the trouble to transcribe them here. They will be printed in a day or
two. Give my hearty service to Stoyte and Catherine: upon my word I love
them dearly, and desire you will tell them so: pray desire Goody Stoyte
not to let Mrs. Walls and Mrs. Johnson cheat her of her money at ombre,
but assure her from me that she is a bungler. Dine with her to-day, and
tell her so, and drink my health, and good voyage, and speedy return,
and so you're a rogue.

5. Morning. Now let us proceed to examine a saucy letter from one Madam
MD.--God Almighty bless poor dear Stella, and send her a great many
birthdays, all happy, and healthy, and wealthy, and with me ever
together, and never asunder again, unless by chance. When I find you are
happy or merry there, it makes me so here, and I can hardly imagine you
absent when I am reading your letter, or writing to you. No, faith, you
are just here upon this little paper, and therefore I see and talk with
you every evening constantly, and sometimes in the morning, but
not always in the morning, because that is not so modest to young
ladies.--What, you would fain palm a letter on me more than you sent:
and I, like a fool, must look over all yours, to see whether this was
really N.12, or more. (Patrick has this moment brought me letters from
the Bishop of Clogher and Parvisol; my heart was at my mouth for fear of
one from MD; what a disgrace would it be to have two of yours to answer
together! But, faith, this shall go to-night, for fear; and then come
when it will, I defy it.) No, you are not naughty at all, write when you
are disposed. And so the Dean told you the story of Mr. Harley from the
Archbishop; I warrant it never spoiled your supper, or broke off your
game. Nor yet, have not you the box? I wish Mrs. Edgworth had the -----.
But you have it now, I suppose; and is the chocolate good, or has the
tobacco spoilt it? Leigh stays till Sterne has done his business, no
longer; and when that will be, God knows: I befriend him as much as I
can, but Harley's accident stops that as well as all things else. You
guess, Madam Dingley, that I shall stay a round twelvemonth; as hope
saved, I would come over, if I could, this minute; but we will talk of
that by and by. Your affair of Vedeau I have told you of already; now
to the next, turn over the leaf. Mrs. Dobbins lies, I have no more
provision here or in Ireland than I had. I am pleased that Stella the
conjurer approves what I did with Mr. Harley;(23) but your generosity
makes me mad; I know you repine inwardly at Presto's absence; you think
he has broken his word of coming in three months, and that this is
always his trick; and now Stella says she does not see possibly how I
can come away in haste, and that MD is satisfied, etc. An't you a rogue
to overpower me thus? I did not expect to find such friends as I
have done. They may indeed deceive me too. But there are important
reasons (Pox on this grease, this candle tallow!) why they should
not.(24) I have been used barbarously by the late Ministry; I am a
little piqued in honour to let people see I am not to be despised. The
assurances they give me, without any scruple or provocation, are such
as are usually believed in the world; they may come to nothing, but the
first opportunity that offers, and is neglected, I shall depend no more,
but come away. I could say a thousand things on this head, if I were
with you. I am thinking why Stella should not go to the Bath, if she be
told it will do her good. I will make Parvisol get up fifty pounds, and
pay it you; and you may be good housewives, and live cheap there some
months, and return in autumn, or visit London, as you please: pray think
of it. I writ to Bernage, directed to Curry's; I wish he had the letter.
I will send the bohea tea, if I can. The Bishop of Kilmore,(25) I don't
keep such company; an old dying fool whom I never was with in my life.
So I am no godfather;(26) all the better. Pray, Stella, explain those
two words of yours to me, what you mean by VILLIAN and DAINGER;(27) and
you, Madam Dingley, what is CHRISTIANING?--Lay your letter THIS WAY,
THIS WAY, and the devil a bit of difference between this way and the
other way. No; I will show you, lay them THIS WAY, THIS WAY, and not
THAT WAY, THAT WAY.(28)--You shall have your aprons; and I will put all
your commissions as they come, in a paper together, and do not think I
will forget MD's orders, because they are friends; I will be as
careful as if they were strangers. I knew not what to do about this
Clements.(29) Walls will not let me say anything as if Mr. Pratt was
against him; and now the Bishop of Clogher has written to me in his
behalf. This thing does not rightly fall in my way, and that people
never consider: I always give my good offices where they are proper, and
that I am judge of; however, I will do what I can. But, if he ha