 a Mohock in one of the messenger's hands. The Queen
was at church to-day, but was carried in an open chair. She has got an
ugly cough, Arbuthnot, her physician, says. I dined with Crowe,(23) late
Governor of Barbados; an acquaintance of Sterne's.(24) After dinner I
asked him whether he had heard of Sterne. "Here he is," said he, "at the
door in a coach:" and in came Sterne. He has been here this week. He is
buying a captainship in his cousin Sterne's(25) regiment. He told me he
left Jemmy Leigh playing at cards with you. He is to give 800 guineas
for his commission. I suppose you know all this better than I. How shall
I have room to answer oo rettle(26) hen I get it, I have gone so far
already? Nite, deelest logues MD.

17. Dr. Sacheverell came this morning to give me thanks for getting his
brother an employment. It was but six or seven weeks since I spoke to
Lord Treasurer for him. Sacheverell brought Trapp(27) along with him. We
dined together at my printer's, and I sat with them till seven. I little
thought, and I believe so did he, that ever I should be his solicitor
to the present Ministry, when I left Ireland. This is the seventh I have
now provided for since I came, and can do nothing for myself. I don't
care; I shall have Ministries and other people obliged to me. Trapp is a
coxcomb, and the t'other is not very deep; and their judgment in things
of wit or sense is miraculous. The Second Part of Law is a Bottomless
Pit(28) is just now printed, and better, I think, than the first. Night,
my two deel saucy dallars.

18. There is a proclamation out against the Mohocks. One of those that
are taken is a baronet. I dined with poor Mrs. Wesley, who is returning
to the Bath. Mrs. Perceval's(29) young daughter has got the smallpox,
but will do well. I walked this evening in the Park, and met Prior, who
made me go home with him, where I stayed till past twelve, and could not
get a coach, and was alone, and was afraid enough of the Mohocks. I
will do so no more, though I got home safe. Prior and I were talking
discontentedly of some managements, that no more people are turned out,
which get Lord Treasurer many enemies: but whether the fault be in him,
or the Queen, I know not; I doubt, in both. Ung omens, it is now seven
weeks since I received your last; but I expect one next Irish packet, to
fill the rest of this paper; but if it don't come, I'll do without it:
so I wish oo good luck at ombre with the Dean. Nite, nuntyes nine.(30)

19. Newcomb came to me this morning, and I went to the Duke of Ormond
to speak for him; but the Duke was just going out to take the oaths for
General. The Duke of Shrewsbury is to be Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. I
walked with Domville and Ford to Kensington, where we dined, and it
cost me above a crown. I don't like it, as the man said.(31) It was
very windy walking. I saw there Lord Masham's children. The youngest, my
nephew, I fear, has got the king's evil; the other two are daughters of
three and four years old. 'Twas very windy walking. The gardens there
are mighty fine. I passed the evening at Lord Masham's with Lord
Treasurer and Arbuthnot, as usual, and we stayed till past one; but I
had my man to come with me, and at home I found three letters; one from
one Fetherston, a parson, with a postscript of Tisdall's to recommend
him: and Fetherston, whom I never saw, has been so kind to give me
a letter of attorney to recover a debt for him. Another from Lord
Abercorn, to get him the dukedom of Chatelherault(32) from the King
of France; in which I will do what I can, for his pretensions are very
just. The third, I warrant you, from our MD. 'Tis a great stir this, of
getting a dukedom from the King of France: but it is only to speak to
the Secretary, and get the Duke of Ormond to engage in it, and mention
the case to Lord Treasurer, etc., and this I shall do. Nite deelest
richar MD.

20. I was with the Duke of Ormond this morning, about Lord Abercorn, Dr.
Freind, and Newcomb. Some will do, and some will not do; that's wise,
marams.(33) The Duke of Shrewsbury is certainly to be your Governor.
I will go in a day or two, and give the Duchess joy, and recommend the
Archbishop of Dublin to her. I writ to the Archbishop, some months ago,
that it would be so, and told him I would speak a good word for him to
the Duchess; and he says he has a great respect for her, etc. I made our
Society change their house, and we met to-day at the Star and Garter
in the Pall Mall. Lord Arran was President. The other dog was so
extravagant in his bills, that for four dishes and four, first and
second course, without wine or dessert, he charged twenty-one pounds,
six shillings, and eightpence, to the Duke of Ormond. We design, when
all have been Presidents this turn, to turn it into a reckoning of so
much a head; but we shall break up when the session ends. Nite deelest
MD.

21. Morning. Now I will answer MD's rettle, N.27; you that are adding
to your number and grumbling, had made it 26, and then altered(34) it
to 27. I believe it is above a month since your last; yes, it is above
seven weeks since I had your last: but I ou