nd cough with it still morning and evening; but it will go
off. It is, however, such abominable weather that no creature can walk.
They say here three of your Commissioners will be turned out, Ogle,
South, and St. Quintin;(31) and that Dick Stewart(32) and Ludlow will
be two of the new ones. I am a little soliciting for another: it is poor
Lord Abercorn,(33) but that is a secret; I mean, that I befriend him
is a secret; but I believe it is too late, by his own fault and ill
fortune. I dined with him to-day. I am heartily sorry you do not go
to Clogher, faith, I am; and so God Almighty protect poor, dear,
dear, dear, dearest MD. Farewell till to-night. I'll begin my eleventh
to-night; so I am always writing to little MD.




LETTER 11.

LONDON, Dec. 9, 1710.

So, young women, I have just sent my tenth to the post-office, and, as I
told you, have received your seventh (faith, I am afraid I mistook,
and said your sixth, and then we shall be all in confusion this month.)
Well, I told you I dined with Lord Abercorn to-day; and that is
enough till by and bye; for I must go write idle things, and twittle
twattle.(1) What's here to do with your little MD's? and so I put this
by for a while. 'Tis now late, and I can only say MD is a dear, saucy
rogue, and what then? Presto loves them the better.

10. This son of a b---- Patrick is out of the way, and I can do nothing;
am forced to borrow coals: 'tis now six o'clock, and I am come home
after a pure walk in the park; delicate weather, begun only to-day.
A terrible storm last night: we hear one of your packet-boats is cast
away, and young Beau Swift(2) in it, and General Sankey:(3) I know not
the truth; you will before me. Raymond talks of leaving the town in a
few days, and going in a month to Ireland, for fear his wife should be
too far gone, and forced to be brought to bed here. I think he is in the
right; but perhaps this packet-boat will fright him. He has no relish
for London; and I do not wonder at it. He has got some Templars from
Ireland that show him the town. I do not let him see me above twice a
week, and that only while I am dressing in the morning.--So, now the
puppy's come in, and I have got my own ink, but a new pen; and so now
you are rogues and sauceboxes till I go to bed; for I must go study,
sirrahs. Now I think of it, tell the Bishop of Clogher, he shall not
cheat me of one inch of my bell metal. You know it is nothing but to
save the town money; and Enniskillen can afford it better than Laracor:
he shall have but one thousand five hundred weight. I have been reading,
etc., as usual, and am now going to bed; and I find this day's article
is long enough: so get you gone till to-morrow, and then. I dined with
Sir Matthew Dudley.

11. I am come home again as yesterday, and the puppy had again locked up
my ink, notwithstanding all I said to him yesterday; but he came home a
little after me, so all is well: they are lighting my fire, and I'll go
study. The fair weather is gone again, and it has rained all day. I do
not like this open weather, though some say it is healthy. They say
it is a false report about the plague at Newcastle.(4) I have no news
to-day: I dined with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, to desire them to buy me a scarf;
and Lady Abercorn(5) is to buy me another, to see who does best: mine is
all in rags. I saw the Duke of Richmond(6) yesterday at Court again, but
would not speak to him: I believe we are fallen out. I am now in bed;
and it has rained all this evening, like wildfire: have you so much rain
in your town? Raymond was in a fright, as I expected, upon the news of
this shipwreck; but I persuaded him, and he leaves this town in a week.
I got him acquainted with Sir Robert Raymond,(7) the Solicitor-General,
who owns him to be of his family; and I believe it may do him a
kindness, by being recommended to your new Lord Chancellor.--I had a
letter from Mrs. Long, that has quite turned my stomach against her:
no less than two nasty jests in it, with dashes to suppose them. She is
corrupted in that country town(8) with vile conversation.--I will not
answer your letter till I have leisure: so let this go on as it will,
what care I? what cares saucy Presto?

12. I was to-day at the Secretary's office with Lewis, and in came Lord
Rivers;(9) who took Lewis out and whispered him; and then came up to me
to desire my acquaintance, etc., so we bowed and complimented a while,
and parted and I dined with Phil. Savage(10) and his Irish Club, at
their boarding-place; and, passing an evening scurvily enough, did not
come home till eight. Mr. Addison and I hardly meet once a fortnight;
his Parliament and my different friendships keep us asunder. Sir Matthew
Dudley turned away his butler yesterday morning; and at night the poor
fellow died suddenly in the streets: was not it an odd event? But what
care you? But then I knew the butler.--Why, it seems your packet-boat is
not lost: psha, how silly that is, when I had already gone through the
forms, and said it was a sad thing, and that I was sorry for it! But
when must I answer this letter of our MD's? Here it is, it lies between
this 