s month much mischief will be done at Bartholomew Fair, by the fall
of a booth.

September. This month begins with a very surprizing fit of frosty
weather, which will last near twelve days.

The Pope having long languish'd last month, the swellings in his legs
breaking, and the flesh mortifying, will die on the 11th instant; and in
three weeks time, after a mighty contest, be succeeded by a cardinal of
the imperial faction, but native of Tuscany, who is now about sixty-one
years old.

The French army acts now wholly on the defensive, strongly fortify'd in
their trenches; and the young French King sends overtures for a treaty
of peace by the Duke of Mantua; which, because it is a matter of state
that concerns us here at home, I shall speak no farther of it.

I shall add but one prediction more, and that in mystical terms, which
shall be included in a verse out of Virgil,

Alter erit jam Tethys, & altera quae vehat Argo. Delectos heroas.

Upon the 25th day of this month, the fulfilling of this prediction will
be manifest to every body.

This is the farthest I have proceeded in my calculations for the present
year. I do not pretend, that these are all the great events which will
happen in this period, but that those I have set down will infallibly
come to pass. It will perhaps still be objected, why I have not spoke
more particularly of affairs at home, or of the success of our armies
abroad, which I might, and could very largely have done; but those in
power have wisely discouraged men from meddling in publick concerns,
and I was resolv'd by no means to give the least offence. This I will
venture to say, That it will be a glorious campaign for the allies,
wherein the English forces, both by sea and land, will have their full
share of honour: That her Majesty Queen Anne will continue in health
and prosperity: And that no ill accident will arrive to any of the chief
ministry.

As to the particular events I have mention'd, the readers may judge
by the fulfilling of 'em, whether I am on the level with common
astrologers; who, with an old paultry cant, and a few pothook for
planets, to amuse the vulgar, have, in my opinion, too long been
suffer'd to abuse the world: But an honest physician ought not to be
despis'd, because there are such things as mountebanks. I hope I have
some share of reputation, which I would not willingly forfeit for a
frolick or humour: And I believe no gentleman, who reads this paper,
will look upon it to be of the same cast or mould with the common
scribblers that are every day hawk'd about. My fortune has placed me
above the little regard of scribbling for a few pence, which I neither
value or want: Therefore let no wise men too hastily condemn this essay,
intended for a good design, to cultivate and improve an ancient art,
long in disgrace, by having fallen into mean and unskilful hands. A
little time will determine whether I have deceived others or myself:
and I think it is no very unreasonable request, that men would please to
suspend their judgments till then. I was once of the opinion with those
who despise all predictions from the stars, till the year 1686, a man
of quality shew'd me, written in his album, That the most learned
astronomer, Captain H. assured him, he would never believe any thing of
the stars' influence, if there were not a great revolution in England in
the year 1688. Since that time I began to have other thoughts, and after
eighteen years diligent study and application, I think I have no reason
to repent of my pains. I shall detain the reader no longer, than to let
him know, that the account I design to give of next year's events, shall
take in the principal affairs that happen in Europe; and if I be denied
the liberty of offering it to my own country, I shall appeal to the
learned world, by publishing it in Latin, and giving order to have it
printed in Holland.


*****




The Accomplishment of the First of Mr Bickerstaff's Predictions;

being an account of the death of Mr Partridge, the almanack-maker, upon
the 29th instant.

In a letter to a person of honour Written in the year 1708

My Lord,

In obedience to your Lordship's commands, as well as to satisfy my own
curiosity, I have for some days past enquired constantly after Partridge
the almanack-maker, of whom it was foretold in Mr. Bickerstaff's
predictions, publish'd about a month ago, that he should die on the
29th instant about eleven at night of a raging fever. I had some sort
of knowledge of him when I was employ'd in the Revenue, because he used
every year to present me with his almanack, as he did other gentlemen,
upon the score of some little gratuity we gave him. I saw him
accidentally once or twice about ten days before he died, and observed
he began very much to droop and languish, tho' I hear his friends did
not seem to apprehend him in any danger. About two or three days ago
he grew ill, and was confin'd first to his chamber, and in a few hours
after to his bed, where Dr. Case and Mrs. Kirleus were sent for to
visit, and to prescribe to him. Upon this intelligence I sent thrice
every day one servant or other to en