of my remaining money; and another from
Joe, that they have had their election at Trim, but not a word of who
is chosen portreeve.(9) Poor Joe is full of complaints, says he has
enemies, and fears he will never get his two hundred pounds; and I fear
so too, although I have done what I could.--I'll answer your letter when
I think fit, when saucy Presto thinks fit, sirrahs. I am not at leisure
yet; when I have nothing to do, perhaps I may vouchsafe.--O Lord, the
two Wexford ladies; I'll go dream of you both.

7. It was the dismallest rainy day I ever saw: I went to the Secretary
in the morning, and he was gone to Windsor. Then it began raining, and
I struck in to Mrs. Vanhomrigh's, and dined, and stayed till night very
dull and insipid. I hate this town in summer; I'll leave it for a while,
if I can have time.

8. I have a fellow of your town, one Tisdall,(10) lodges in the same
house with me. Patrick told me Squire Tisdall and his lady lodged here.
I pretended I never heard of him; but I knew his ugly face, and saw him
at church in the next pew to me, and he often looked for a bow, but it
would not do. I think he lives in Capel Street, and has an ugly fine
wife in a fine coach. Dr. Freind and I dined in the City by invitation,
and I drank punch, very good, but it makes me hot. People here are
troubled with agues by this continuance of wet, cold weather; but I am
glad to find the season so temperate. I was this evening to see Will
Congreve, who is a very agreeable companion.

9. I was to-day in the City, and dined with Mr. Stratford, who tells me
Sir Alexander Cairnes makes difficulties about paying my bill; so that I
cannot give order yet to Parvisol to deliver up the bond to Dr. Raymond.
To-morrow I shall have a positive answer: that Cairnes is a shuffling
scoundrel; and several merchants have told me so: what can one expect
from a Scot and a fanatic? I was at Bateman's the bookseller's, to see a
fine old library he has bought; and my fingers itched, as yours would
do at a china-shop; but I resisted, and found everything too dear, and
I have fooled away too much money that way already. So go and drink your
waters, saucy rogue, and make yourself well; and pray walk while you are
there: I have a notion there is never a good walk in Ireland.(11) Do
you find all places without trees? Pray observe the inhabitants about
Wexford; they are old English; see what they have particular in their
manners, names, and language: magpies have been always there, and
nowhere else in Ireland, till of late years. They say the cocks and dogs
go to sleep at noon, and so do the people. Write your travels, and bring
home good eyes and health.

10. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer: we did not sit down till four.
I despatched three businesses with him, and forgot a fourth. I think I
have got a friend an employment; and besides I made him consent to let
me bring Congreve to dine with him. You must understand I have a mind
to do a small thing, only turn out all the Queen's physicians; for in my
conscience they will soon kill her among them. And I must talk over
that matter with some people. My Lord Treasurer told me the Queen and he
between them have lost the paper about the First-Fruits, but desires I
will let the bishops know it shall be done with the first opportunity.

11. I dined to-day with neighbour Van, and walked pretty well in the
Park this evening. Stella, hussy, don't you remember, sirrah, you used
to reproach me about meddling in other folk's affairs? I have enough of
it now: two people came to me to-night in the Park to engage to speak
to Lord Treasurer in their behalf, and I believe they make up fifty who
have asked me the same favour. I am hardened, and resolve to trouble
him, or any other Minister, less than ever. And I observe those who have
ten times more credit than I will not speak a word for anybody. I met
yesterday the poor lad I told you of, who lived with Mr. Tenison,(12)
who has been ill of an ague ever since I saw him. He looked wretchedly,
and was exceeding thankful for half a crown I gave him. He had a crown
from me before.

12. I dined to-day with young Manley(13) in the City, who is to get me
out a box of books and a hamper of wine from Hamburg. I inquired of Mr.
Stratford, who tells me that Cairnes has not yet paid my two hundred
pounds, but shams and delays from day to day. Young Manley's wife is a
very indifferent person of a young woman, goggle-eyed, and looks like a
fool: yet he is a handsome fellow, and married her for love after long
courtship, and she refused him until he got his last employment.--I
believe I shall not be so good a boy for writing as I was during your
stay at Wexford, unless I may send my letters every second time to
Curry's; pray let me know. This, I think, shall go there: or why not
to Wexford itself? That is right, and so it shall this next Tuesday,
although it costs you tenpence. What care I?

13. This toad of a Secretary is come from Windsor, and I cannot find
him; and he goes back on Sunday, and I can't see him to-morrow. I dined
scurvily to-day with Mr. Lewis and a parson; and then went to 