ing. Morrow, little dears. O, faith, I have been dreaming; I was
to be put in prison. I do not know why, and I was so afraid of a black
dungeon; and then all I had been inquiring yesterday of Sir Andrew
Fountaine's sickness I thought was of poor Stella. The worst of dreams
is, that one wakes just in the humour they leave one. Shall I send this
to-day? With all my heart: it is two days within the fortnight; but may
be MD are in haste to have a round dozen: and then how are you come up
to me with your eighth, young women? But you indeed ought to write twice
slower than I, because there are two of you; I own that. Well then, I
will seal up this letter by my morning candle, and carry it into the
city with me, where I go to dine, and put it into the post-office with
my own fair hands. So, let me see whether I have any news to tell MD.
They say they will very soon make some inquiries into the corruptions
of the late Ministry; and they must do it, to justify their turning them
out. Atterbury,(21) we think, is to be Dean of Christ Church in Oxford;
but the College would rather have Smalridge--What's all this to you?
What care you for Atterburys and Smalridges? No, you care for nothing
but Presto, faith. So I will rise, and bid you farewell; yet I am loth
to do so, because there is a great bit of paper yet to talk upon; but
Dingley will have it so: "Yes," says she, "make your journals shorter,
and send them oftener;" and so I will. And I have cheated you another
way too; for this is clipped paper, and holds at least six lines less
than the former ones. I will tell you a good thing I said to my Lord
Carteret.(22) "So," says he, "my Lord came up to me, and asked me," etc.
"No," said I, "my Lord never did, nor ever can come up to you." We all
pun here sometimes. Lord Carteret set down Prior t'other day in his
chariot; and Prior thanked him for his CHARITY; that was fit for
Dilly.(23) I do not remember I heard one good one from the Ministry;
which is really a shame. Henley is gone to the country for Christmas.
The puppy comes here without his wife,(24) and keeps no house, and would
have me dine with him at eating-houses; but I have only done it
once, and will do it no more. He had not seen me for some time in the
Coffee-house, and asking after me, desired Lord Herbert to tell me I was
a beast for ever, after the order of Melchisedec. Did you ever read the
Scripture?(25) It is only changing the word priest to beast.--I think
I am bewitched, to write so much in a morning to you, little MD. Let
me go, will you? and I'll come again to-night in a fine clean sheet of
paper; but I can nor will stay no longer now; no, I won't, for all your
wheedling: no, no, look off, do not smile at me, and say, "Pray, pray,
Presto, write a little more." Ah! you are a wheedling slut, you be so.
Nay, but prithee turn about, and let me go, do; 'tis a good girl, and
do. O, faith, my morning candle is just out, and I must go now in spite
of my teeth; for my bed-chamber is dark with curtains, and I am at the
wrong side. So farewell, etc. etc.

I am in the dark almost: I must have another candle, when I am up, to
seal this; but I will fold it up in the dark, and make what you can of
this, for I can only see this paper I am writing upon. Service to Mrs.
Walls and Mrs. Stoyte.

God Almighty bless you, etc. What I am doing I can't see; but I will
fold it up, and not look on it again.




LETTER 13.

LONDON, Jan. 4, 1710-11.

I was going into the City (where I dined and put my 12th, with my own
fair hands, into the post-office as I came back, which was not till nine
this night). I dined with people that you never heard of, nor is it worth
your while to know; an authoress and a printer.(1) I walked home for
exercise, and at eleven got to bed; and, all the while I was undressing
myself, there was I speaking monkey things in air, just as if MD had
been by, and did not recollect myself till I got into bed. I writ last
night to the Archbishop, and told him the warrant was drawn for the
First-Fruits; and I told him Lord Peterborow was set out for his journey
to Vienna; but it seems the Lords have addressed to have him stay, to
be examined about Spanish affairs, upon this defeat there, and to know
where the fault lay, etc. So I writ to the Archbishop a lie; but I think
it was not a sin.

5. Mr. Secretary St. John sent for me this morning so early, that I was
forced to go without shaving, which put me quite out of method. I called
at Mr. Ford's, and desired him to lend me a shaving; and so made a
shift to get into order again. Lord! here is an impertinence: Sir Andrew
Fountaine's mother and sister(2) are come above a hundred miles, from
Worcester, to see him before he died. They got here but yesterday; and
he must have been past hopes, or past fears, before they could reach
him. I fell a scolding when I heard they were coming; and the people
about him wondered at me, and said what a mighty content it would be on
both sides to die when they were with him! I knew the mother; she is the
greatest Overdo(3) upon earth; and the sister, they say, is worse; the
poor man will relapse aga