r, no Eclipse appear'd?
          No Comet with a flaming Beard?
          The Sun has rose, and gone to Bed,
          Just as if partridge were not dead:
          Nor hid himself behind the Moon,
          To make a dreadful Night at Noon.
          He at fit Periods walks through Aries,
          Howe'er our earthly Motion varies;
          And twice a Year he'll cut th' Equator,
          As if there had been no such Matter.

          Some Wits have wonder'd what Analogy
          There is 'twixt Cobbling* and Astrology:
          How Partridge made his Optics rise,
          From a Shoe-Sole, to reach the Skies.

          A List of Coblers Temples Ties,
          To keep the Hair out of their Eyes;
          From whence 'tis plain the Diadem
          That Princes wear, derives from them.
          And therefore Crowns are now-a-days
          Adorn'd with Golden Stars and Rays,
          Which plainly shews the near Alliance
          'Twixt cobling and the Planets Science.

          Besides, that slow-pac'd Sign Bootes,
          As 'tis miscall'd, we know not who 'tis?
          But Partridge ended all Disputes,
          He knew his Trade, and call'd it **Boots.

          The Horned Moon, which heretofore
          Upon their Shoes the Romans wore,
          Whose Wideness kept their Toes from Corns,
          And whence we claim our Shooing-Horns;
          Shows how the Art of Cobling bears
          A near Resemblance to the Spheres.

          A Scrap of Parchment hung by Geometry
          (A great Refinement in Barometry)
          Can, like the Stars, foretel the Weather;
          And what is Parchment else but Leather?
          Which an Astrologer might use,
          Either for Almanacks or Shoes.

          Thus Partridge, by his Wit and Parts,
          At once did practise both these Arts;
          And as the boading Owl (or rather
          The Bat, because her Wings are Leather)
          Steals from her private Cell by Night,
          And flies about the Candle-Light;
          So learned Partridge could as well
          Creep in the Dark from Leathern Cell,
          And, in his Fancy, fly as fair,
          To peep upon a twinkling Star.

          Besides, he could confound the Spheres,
          And set the Planets by the Ears;
          To shew his Skill, he Mars could join
          To Venus in Aspect Mali'n;
          Then call in Mercury for Aid,
          And cure the Wounds that Venus made.

          Great Scholars have in Lucian read,
          When Philip, King of Greece was dead,
          His Soul and Spirit did divide,
          And each Part took a diff'rent Side;
          One rose a Star, the other fell
          Beneath, and mended Shoes in Hell.

          Thus Partridge still shines in each Art,
          The Cobling and Star-gazing Part,
          And is install'd as good a Star
          As any of the Caesars are.

          Triumphant Star! some Pity shew
          On Coblers militant below,
          Whom roguish Boys in stormy Nights
          Torment, by pissing out their Lights;
          Or thro' a Chink convey their Smoke;
          Inclos'd Artificers to choke.

          Thou, high exalted in thy Sphere,
          May'st follow still thy Calling there.
          To thee the Bull will lend his hide,
          By Phoebus newly tann'd and dry'd.
          For thee they Argo's Hulk will tax,
          And scrape her pitchy Sides for Wax.
          Then Ariadne kindly lends
          Her braided Hair to make thee Ends.
          The Point of Sagittarius' Dart
          Turns to an awl, by heav'nly Art;
          And Vulcan, wheedled by his Wife,
          Will forge for thee a Paring-Knife.
          For want of Room, by Virgo's Side,
          She'll strain a Point, and sit astride***,
          To take thee kindly in between,
          And then the Signs will be Thirteen.

     *Partridge was a Cobler.

     ** See his Almanack

     ***Tibi brachia contrahet ingens Scorpius, etc.


*****




An Epitaph on Partridge.

          Here, five Foot deep, lies on his Back,
          A Cobler, Starmonger, and Quack;
          Who to the Stars in pure Good-will,
          Does to his best look upward still.
          Weep all you Customers that use
          His Pills, his Almanacks, or Shoes;
          And you that did your Fortunes seek,
          Step to his Grave but once a Week:
          This Earth which bears his Body's Print,
          You'll find has so much Vertue in't,
          That I durst pawn my Ears 'twill tell
          Whate'er concerns you full as well,
          In Physick, Stolen Goods, or Love,
          As he himself could, when above.


*****




Partridge's reply

'Squire Bickerstaff detected; or, the astrological impostor convicted;

by John Partridge, student in physick and astrology.

It is hard, my dear countrymen of these united nations, it is very
hard that a Briton born, a Protestant astrologer, a man of revolution
principles, an assertor of the liberty and property of the people,
should cry out, in vain, for justice against a Frenchman, 