oytes? Do they give you health for the money you lose at ombre,
sirrah? What say you to that? Poor Dingley frets to see Stella lose that
four and elevenpence, the other night. Let us rise. Morrow, sirrahs. I
will rise, spite of your little teeth; good-morrow.--At night. O, faith,
you are little dear saucyboxes. I was just going in the morning to tell
you that I began to want a letter from MD, and in four minutes after Mr.
Ford sends me one that he had picked up at St. James's Coffee-house; for
I go to no coffee-house at all. And, faith, I was glad at heart to see
it, and to see Stella so brisk. O Lord, what pretending? Well, but I
will not answer it yet; I'll keep it for t'other side. Well, we dined
to-day according to appointment: Lord Keeper went away at near eight,
I at eight, and I believe the rest will be fairly fuddled; for young
Harcourt,(5) Lord Keeper's son, began to prattle before I came away.
It will not do with Prior's lean carcass. I drink little, miss my glass
often, put water in my wine, and go away before the rest, which I take
to be a good receipt for sobriety. Let us put it into rhyme, and so make
a proverb--

     Drink little at a time;
     Put water with your wine;
     Miss your glass when you can;
     And go off the first man.

God be thanked, I am much better than I was, though something of a
totterer. I ate but little to-day, and of the gentlest meat. I refused
ham and pigeons, pease-soup, stewed beef, cold salmon, because they were
too strong. I take no snuff at all, but some herb snuff prescribed by
Dr. Radcliffe.

     Go to your deans,
     You couple of queans.

I believe I said that already. What care I? what cares Presto?

22. Morning. I must rise and go to the Secretary's. Mr. Harley has
been out of town this week to refresh himself before he comes into
Parliament. Oh, but I must rise, so there is no more to be said; and so
morrow, sirrahs both.--Night. I dined to-day with the Secretary, who
has engaged me for every Sunday; and I was an hour with him this morning
deep in politics, where I told him the objections of the October Club,
and he answered all except one, that no inquiries are made into past
mismanagement. But indeed I believe they are not yet able to make
any: the late Ministry were too cunning in their rogueries, and fenced
themselves with an Act of general pardon. I believe Mr. Harley must be
Lord Treasurer; yet he makes one difficulty which is hard to answer: he
must be made a lord, and his estate is not large enough, and he is too
generous to make it larger; and if the Ministry should change soon by
any accident, he will be left in the suds. Another difficulty is, that
if he be made a peer, they will want him prodigiously in the House of
Commons, of which he is the great mover, and after him the Secretary,
and hardly any else of weight. Two shillings more to-day for coach and
chair. I shall be ruined.

23. So you expect an answer to your letter, do you so? Yes, yes, you
shall have an answer, you shall, young women. I made a good pun
on Saturday to my Lord Keeper. After dinner we had coarse Doiley
napkins,(6) fringed at each end, upon the table, to drink with: my Lord
Keeper spread one of them between him and Mr. Prior; I told him I was
glad to see there was such a fringeship (friendship) between Mr. Prior
and his lordship. Prior swore it was the worst he ever heard: I said I
thought so too; but at the same time I thought it was most like one of
Stella's that ever I heard. I dined to-day with Lord Mountjoy, and this
evening saw the Venetian Ambassador(7) coming from his first public
audience. His coach was the most monstrous, huge, fine, rich gilt thing
that ever I saw. I loitered this evening, and came home late.

24. I was this morning to visit the Duchess of Ormond,(8) who has long
desired it, or threatened she would not let me visit her daughters.
I sat an hour with her, and we were good company, when in came the
Countess of Bellamont,(9) with a pox. I went out, and we did not know
one another; yet hearing me named, she asked, "What, is that Dr. Swift?"
said she and I were very well acquainted, and fell a railing at me
without mercy, as a lady told me that was there; yet I never was but
once in the company of that drab of a Countess. Sir Andrew Fountaine and
I dined with my neighbour Van. I design in two days, if possible, to
go lodge at Chelsea for the air, and put myself under a necessity of
walking to and from London every day. I writ this post to the Bishop of
Clogher a long politic letter, to entertain him. I am to buy statues and
harnese(10) for them, with a vengeance. I have packed and sealed up MD's
twelve letters against I go to Chelsea. I have put the last commissions
of MD in my account-book; but if there be any former ones, I have forgot
them. I have Dingley's pocket-book down, and Stella's green silk apron,
and the pound of tea; pray send me word if you have any other, and down
they shall go. I will not answer your letter yet, saucy boxes. You are
with the Dean just now, Madam Stella, losing your money. Why do not
you name what number you have received? You say