mixture of
their own dung and urine, forcibly put down the _Yahoo’s_ throat.  This I
have since often known to have been taken with success, and do here
freely recommend it to my countrymen for the public good, as an admirable
specific against all diseases produced by repletion.

“As to learning, government, arts, manufactures, and the like,” my master
confessed, “he could find little or no resemblance between the _Yahoos_
of that country and those in ours; for he only meant to observe what
parity there was in our natures.  He had heard, indeed, some curious
_Houyhnhnms_ observe, that in most herds there was a sort of ruling
_Yahoo_ (as among us there is generally some leading or principal stag in
a park), who was always more deformed in body, and mischievous in
disposition, than any of the rest; that this leader had usually a
favourite as like himself as he could get, whose employment was to lick
his master’s feet and posteriors, and drive the female _Yahoos_ to his
kennel; for which he was now and then rewarded with a piece of ass’s
flesh.  This favourite is hated by the whole herd, and therefore, to
protect himself, keeps always near the person of his leader.  He usually
continues in office till a worse can be found; but the very moment he is
discarded, his successor, at the head of all the _Yahoos_ in that
district, young and old, male and female, come in a body, and discharge
their excrements upon him from head to foot.  But how far this might be
applicable to our courts, and favourites, and ministers of state, my
master said I could best determine.”

I durst make no return to this malicious insinuation, which debased human
understanding below the sagacity of a common hound, who has judgment
enough to distinguish and follow the cry of the ablest dog in the pack,
without being ever mistaken.

My master told me, “there were some qualities remarkable in the _Yahoos_,
which he had not observed me to mention, or at least very slightly, in
the accounts I had given of humankind.”  He said, “those animals, like
other brutes, had their females in common; but in this they differed,
that the she _Yahoo_ would admit the males while she was pregnant; and
that the hes would quarrel and fight with the females, as fiercely as
with each other; both which practices were such degrees of infamous
brutality, as no other sensitive creature ever arrived at.

“Another thing he wondered at in the _Yahoos_, was their strange
disposition to nastiness and dirt; whereas there appears to be a natural
love of cleanliness in all other animals.”  As to the two former
accusations, I was glad to let them pass without any reply, because I had
not a word to offer upon them in defence of my species, which otherwise I
certainly had done from my own inclinations.  But I could have easily
vindicated humankind from the imputation of singularity upon the last
article, if there had been any swine in that country (as unluckily for me
there were not), which, although it may be a sweeter quadruped than a
_Yahoo_, cannot, I humbly conceive, in justice, pretend to more
cleanliness; and so his honour himself must have owned, if he had seen
their filthy way of feeding, and their custom of wallowing and sleeping
in the mud.

My master likewise mentioned another quality which his servants had
discovered in several Yahoos, and to him was wholly unaccountable.  He
said, “a fancy would sometimes take a _Yahoo_ to retire into a corner, to
lie down, and howl, and groan, and spurn away all that came near him,
although he were young and fat, wanted neither food nor water, nor did
the servant imagine what could possibly ail him.  And the only remedy
they found was, to set him to hard work, after which he would infallibly
come to himself.”  To this I was silent out of partiality to my own kind;
yet here I could plainly discover the true seeds of spleen, which only
seizes on the lazy, the luxurious, and the rich; who, if they were forced
to undergo the same regimen, I would undertake for the cure.

His honour had further observed, “that a female _Yahoo_ would often stand
behind a bank or a bush, to gaze on the young males passing by, and then
appear, and hide, using many antic gestures and grimaces, at which time
it was observed that she had a most offensive smell; and when any of the
males advanced, would slowly retire, looking often back, and with a
counterfeit show of fear, run off into some convenient place, where she
knew the male would follow her.

“At other times, if a female stranger came among them, three or four of
her own sex would get about her, and stare, and chatter, and grin, and
smell her all over; and then turn off with gestures, that seemed to
express contempt and disdain.”

Perhaps my master might refine a little in these speculations, which he
had drawn from what he observed himself, or had been told him by others;
however, I could not reflect without some amazement, and much sorrow,
that the rudiments of lewdness, coquetry, censure, and scandal, should
have place by instinct in womankind.

I expected every moment that my master would accuse the _Yahoos_ of thos