at will be in ten days from the last, young women; that's
too soon of all conscience: but answering yours has filled it up so
quick, and I do not design to use you to three pages in folio, no,
nooooh. All this is one morning's work in bed;--and so good-morrow,
little sirrahs; that's for the rhyme.(18) You want politics: faith, I
can't think of any; but may be at night I may tell you a passage. Come,
sit off the bed, and let me rise, will you?--At night. I dined to-day
with my neighbour Vanhomrigh; it was such dismal weather I could not
stir further. I have had some threatenings with my head, but no fits. I
still drink Dr. Radcliffe's(19) bitter, and will continue it.

10. I was this morning to see the Secretary of State, and have engaged
him to give a memorial from me to the Duke of Argyle in behalf of
Bernage. The Duke is a man that distinguishes people of merit, and I
will speak to him myself; but the Secretary backing it will be very
effectual, and I will take care to have it done to purpose. Pray tell
Bernage so, and that I think nothing can be luckier for him, and that I
would have him go by all means. I will order it that the Duke shall send
for him when they are in Spain; or, if he fails, that he shall receive
him kindly when he goes to wait on him. Can I do more? Is not this a
great deal?--I now send away this letter, that you may not stay.--I
dined with Ford upon his Opera-day, and am now come home, and am going
to study; do not you presume to guess, sirrahs, impudent saucy dear
boxes. Towards the end of a letter I could not say saucy boxes without
putting dear between. An't that right now? Farewell. THIS should BE
longer, BUT that _I_ send IT to-night.(20)

O silly, silly loggerhead!

I send a letter this post to one Mr. Staunton, and I direct it to Mr.
Acton's in St. Michael's Lane. He formerly lodged there, but he has not
told me where to direct. Pray send to that Acton, whether(21) the letter
is come there, and whether he has sent it to Staunton.

If Bernage designs to sell his commission and stay at home, pray let him
tell me so, that my recommendation to the Duke of Argyle may not be in
vain.




LETTER 16.

LONDON, Feb. 10, 1710-11.

I have just despatched my fifteenth to the post; I tell you how things
will be, after I have got a letter from MD. I am in furious haste
to finish mine, for fear of having two of MD's to answer in one of
Presto's, which would be such a disgrace, never saw the like; but,
before you write to me, I write at my leisure, like a gentleman, a
little every day, just to let you know how matters go, and so and
so; and I hope before this comes to you, you'll have got your box and
chocolate, and Presto will take more care another time.

11. Morning. I must rise and go see my Lord Keeper,(1) which will
cost me two shillings in coach-hire. Don't you call them two
thirteens?(2)--At night. It has rained all day, and there was no
walking. I read prayers to Sir Andrew Fountaine in the forenoon, and I
dined with three Irishmen, at one Mr. Cope's(3) lodgings; the other two
were one Morris an archdeacon,(4) and Mr. Ford. When I came home this
evening, I expected that little jackanapes Harrison would have come to
get help about his Tatler for Tuesday: I have fixed two evenings in the
week which I allow him to come. The toad never came, and I expecting him
fell a reading, and left off other business.--Come, what are you doing?
How do you pass your time this ugly weather? Gaming and drinking, I
suppose: fine diversions for young ladies, truly! I wish you had some
of our Seville oranges, and we some of your wine. We have the finest
oranges for twopence apiece, and the basest wine for six shillings a
bottle. They tell me wine grows cheap with you. I am resolved to have
half a hogshead when I get to Ireland, if it be good and cheap, as it
used to be; and I will treat MD at my table in an evening, oh hoa, and
laugh at great Ministers of State.

12. The days are grown fine and long, ---- be thanked. O, faith, you
forget all our little sayings, and I am angry. I dined to-day with Mr.
Secretary St. John: I went to the Court of Requests at noon, and sent
Mr. Harley into the House to call the Secretary, to let him know I would
not dine with him if he dined late. By good luck the Duke of Argyle was
at the lobby of the House too, and I kept him in talk till the Secretary
came out; then told them I was glad to meet them together, and that
I had a request to the Duke, which the Secretary must second, and
his Grace must grant. The Duke said he was sure it was something
insignificant, and wished it was ten times greater. At the Secretary's
house I writ a memorial, and gave it to the Secretary to give the Duke,
and shall see that he does it. It is, that his Grace will please to
take Mr. Bernage into his protection; and if he finds Bernage answers my
character, to give him all encouragement. Colonel Masham(5) and Colonel
Hill(6) Mrs. Masham's(7) brother tell me my request is reasonable, and
they will second it heartily to the Duke too: so I reckon Bernage is
on a very good foot when he goes to Spain. Pray tell him this,