s hard such a dog should escape.--As I left Lord
Mountjoy's I saw the Duke d'Aumont, the French Ambassador, going from
Lord Bolingbroke's, where he dined, to have a private audience of the
Queen. I followed, and went up to Court, where there was a great
crowd. I was talking with the Duke of Argyle by the fireside in the
bed-chamber, when the Ambassador came out from the Queen. Argyle
presented me to him, and Lord Bolingbroke and we talked together a
while. He is a fine gentleman, something like the Duke of Ormond, and
just such an expensive man. After church to-day I showed the Bishop of
Clogher, at Court, who was who. Nite my two dee logues, and...(2)

5. Our frost is broke, but it is bloody cold. Lord Treasurer is
recovered, and went out this evening to the Queen. I dined with Lady
Oxford, and then sat with Lord Treasurer while he went out. He gave me
a letter from an unknown hand, relating to Dr. Brown,(3) Bishop of Cork,
recommending him to a better bishopric, as a person who opposed Lord
Wharton, and was made a bishop on that account, celebrating him for
a great politician, etc.: in short, all directly contrary to his
character, which I made bold to explain. What dogs there are in the
world! I was to see the poor Duke and Duchess of Ormond this morning.
The Duke was in his public room, with Mr. Southwell(4) and two more
gentlemen. When Southwell and I were alone with him, he talked something
of Lord Ashburnham, that he was afraid the Whigs would get him again.
He bore up as well as he could, but something falling accidentally in
discourse, the tears were just falling out of his eyes, and I looked
off to give him an opportunity (which he took) of wiping them with his
handkerchief. I never saw anything so moving, nor such a mixture of
greatness of mind, and tenderness, and discretion. Nite MD.

6. Lord Bolingbroke and Parnell and I dined, by invitation, with my
friend Darteneuf,(5) whom you have heard me talk of. Lord Bolingbroke
likes Parnell mightily; and it is pleasant to see that one who hardly
passed for anything in Ireland makes his way here with a little friendly
forwarding. It is scurvy rainy weather, and I have hardly been abroad
to-day, nor know anything that passes.--Lord Treasurer is quite
recovered, and I hope will be careful to keep himself well. The Duchess
of Marlborough is leaving England to go to her Duke, and makes presents
of rings to several friends, they say worth two hundred pounds apiece. I
am sure she ought to give me one, though the Duke pretended to think me
his greatest enemy, and got people to tell me so, and very mildly to let
me know how gladly he would have me softened toward him. I bid a lady of
his acquaintance and mine let him know that I had hindered many a bitter
thing against him; not for his own sake, but because I thought it looked
base; and I desired everything should be left him, except power. Nite
MD.

7. I dined with Lord and Lady Masham to-day, and this evening played at
ombre with Mrs. Vanhom, merely for amusement. The Ministers have got my
papers, and will neither read them nor give them to me; and I can hardly
do anything. Very warm slabby weather, but I made a shift to get a walk;
yet I lost half of it, by shaking off Lord Rochester,(6) who is a
good, civil, simple man. The Bishop of Ossory will not be Bishop of
Hereford,(7) to the great grief of himself and his wife. And hat is MD
doing now, I wonder? Playing at cards with the Dean and Mrs. Walls? I
think it is not certain yet that Maccartney is escaped. I am plagued
with bad authors, verse and prose, who send me their books and poems,
the vilest trash I ever saw; but I have given their names to my man,
never to let them see me. I have got new ink, and 'tis very white; and
I don't see that it turns black at all. I'll go to seep; 'tis past
twelve.--Nite, MD.

8. Oo must understand that I am in my geers, and have got a
chocolate-pot, a present from Mrs. Ashe of Clogher, and some chocolate
from my brother Ormond, and I treat folks sometimes. I dined with
Lord Treasurer at five o'clock to-day, and was by while he and Lord
Bolingbroke were at business; for it is fit I should know all that
passes now, because, etc. The Duke of Ormond employed me to speak to
Lord Treasurer to-day about an affair, and I did so; and the Duke had
spoke himself two hours before, which vexed me, and I will chide the
Duke about it. I'll tell you a good thing; there is not one of the
Ministry but what will employ me as gravely to speak for them to Lord
Treasurer as if I were their brother or his; and I do it as gravely:
though I know they do it only because they will not make themselves
uneasy, or had rather I should be denied than they. I believe our peace
will not be finished these two months; for I think we must have a
return from Spain by a messenger, who will not go till Sunday next.
Lord Treasurer has invited me to dine with him again to-morrow. Your
Commissioner, Keatley,(8) is to be there. Nite dee richar MD.(9)

9. Dr. Pratt drank chocolate with me this morning, and then we walked. I
was yesterday with him to see Lady Betty Butler, grieving for