nd if it be not
answered, whose fault is it, sauci dallars?--Do you know that Grub
Street is dead and gone last week? No more ghosts or murders now for
love or money. I plied it pretty close the last fortnight, and published
at least seven penny papers of my own, besides some of other people's:
but now every single half-sheet pays a halfpenny to the Queen.(3) The
Observator is fallen; the Medleys are jumbled together with the Flying
Post; the Examiner is deadly sick; the Spectator keeps up, and doubles
its price; I know not how long it will hold. Have you seen the red
stamp the papers are marked with? Methinks it is worth a halfpenny,
the stamping it. Lord Bolingbroke and Prior set out for France last
Saturday. My lord's business is to hasten the peace before the Dutch
are too much mauled, and hinder France from carrying the jest of beating
them too far. Have you seen the Fourth Part of John Bull?(4) It is equal
to the rest, and extremely good. The Bishop of Clogher's son has been
ill of St. Anthony's fire, but is now quite well. I was afraid his face
would be spoiled, but it is not. Dilly is just as he used to be, and
puns as plentifully and as bad. The two brothers see one another; but I
think not the two sisters. Raymond writ to me that he intended to invite
you to Trim. Are you, have you, will you be there? Won't oo see pool
Laratol?(5) Parvisol says I shall have no fruit. Blasts have taken away
all. Pray observe the cherry-trees on the river-walk; but oo are too
lazy to take such a journey. If you have not your letters in due time
for two months hence, impute it to my being tosticated between this and
Windsor. And pray send me again the state of ME's money; for I will not
look into your letter for it. Poor Lord Winchelsea(6) is dead, to my
great grief. He was a worthy honest gentleman, and particular friend of
mine: and, what is yet worse, my old acquaintance, Mrs. Finch,(7) is
now Countess of Winchelsea, the title being fallen to her husband, but
without much estate. I have been poring my eyes all this morning, and it
is now past two afternoon, so I shall take a little walk in the Park.
Do you play at ombre still? Or is that off by Mr. Stoyte's absence, and
Mrs. Manley's grief? Somebody was telling me of a strange sister that
Mrs. Manley has got in Ireland, who disappointed you all about her being
handsome. My service to Mrs. Walls. Farewell, deelest MD MD MD, FW FW
FW, ME ME ME ME ME. Lele, logues both; rove poo Pdfr.




LETTER 52.(1)

WINDSOR, Sept. 15, 1712.

I never was so long without writing to MD as now, since I left them, nor
ever will again while I am able to write. I have expected from one week
to another that something would be done in my own affairs; but nothing
at all is, nor I don't know when anything will, or whether ever at all,
so slow are people at doing favours. I have been much out of order of
late with the old giddiness in my head. I took a vomit for it two days
ago, and will take another about a day or two hence. I have eat mighty
little fruit; yet I impute my disorder to that little, and shall
henceforth wholly forbear it. I am engaged in a long work, and have
done all I can of it, and wait for some papers from the Ministry for
materials for the rest; and they delay me, as if it were a favour I
asked of them; so that I have been idle here this good while, and it
happened in a right time, when I was too much out of order to study. One
is kept constantly out of humour by a thousand unaccountable things
in public proceedings; and when I reason with some friends, we cannot
conceive how affairs can last as they are. God only knows, but it is a
very melancholy subject for those who have any near concern in it. I am
again endeavouring, as I was last year, to keep people(2) from breaking
to pieces upon a hundred misunderstandings. One cannot withhold them
from drawing different ways, while the enemy is watching to destroy
both. See how my style is altered, by living and thinking and talking
among these people, instead of my canal and river-walk and willows. I
lose all my money here among the ladies;(3) so that I never play when I
can help it, being sure to lose. I have lost five pounds the five weeks
I have been here. I hope Ppt is luckier at picquet with the Dean and
Mrs. Walls. The Dean never answered my letter, though. I have clearly
forgot whether I sent a bill for ME in any of my last letters. I think I
did; pray let me know, and always give me timely notice. I wait here but
to see what they will do for me; and whenever preferments are given from
me, as hope saved, I will come over.

18. I have taken a vomit to-day, and hope I shall be better. I have been
very giddy since I writ what is before, yet not as I used to be: more
frequent, but not so violent. Yesterday we were alarmed with the Queen's
being ill: she had an aguish and feverish fit; and you never saw such
countenances as we all had, such dismal melancholy. Her physicians from
town were sent for, but towards night she grew better; to-day she missed
her fit, and was up: we are not now in any fear; it will be at worst but
an ague, and we hope