writ it. 'Tis a sad thing to write to people without
tact. There you say, you hear I was going to Bath. No such thing; I am
pretty well, I thank God. The town is now sending me to Savoy.(29) Forty
people have given me joy of it, yet there is not the least truth that I
know in it. I was at an auction of pictures, but bought none. I was so
glad of my liberty, that I would dine nowhere; but, the weather being
fine, I sauntered into the City, and ate a bit about five, and then
supped at Mr. Burke's(30) your Accountant-General, who had been engaging
me this month. The Bishop of Clogher was to have been there, but was
hindered by Lord Paget's(31) funeral. The Provost and I sat till one
o'clock; and, if that be not late, I don't know what is late. Parnell's
poem will be published on Monday, and to-morrow I design he shall
present it to Lord Treasurer and Lord Bolingbroke at Court. The poor lad
is almost always out of order with his head. Burke's wife is his sister.
She has a little of the pert Irish way. Nite MD.

21. Morning. I will now finish my letter; for company will come, and
a stir, and a clutter; and I'll keep the letter in my pottick,(32)
and give it into the post myself. I must go to Court, and you know on
Saturdays I dine with Lord Treasurer, of course. Farewell, deelest MD MD
MD, FW FW FW, MD ME ME ME Lele sollahs.(33)




LETTER 62.(1)

LONDON, March 21, 1712-13.

I gave your letter in this night. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day,
and find he has been at a meeting at Lord Halifax's house, with four
principal Whigs; but he is resolved to begin a speech against them when
the Parliament sits; and I have begged that the Ministers may have a
meeting on purpose to settle that matter, and let us be the attackers;
and I believe it will come to something, for the Whigs intend to attack
the Ministers: and if, instead of that, the Ministers attack the Whigs,
it will be better: and farther, I believe we shall attack them on those
very points they intend to attack us. The Parliament will be again
prorogued for a fortnight, because of Passion Week. I forgot to tell you
that Mr. Griffin has given Ppt's brother(2) a new employment, about ten
pounds a year better than his former; but more remote, and consequently
cheaper. I wish I could have done better, and hope oo will take what can
be done in good part, and that oo brother will not dislike it.--Nite own
dear... MD.

22. I dined to-day with Lord Steward.(3) There Frank Annesley(4) (a
Parliament-man) told me he had heard that I had wrote to my friends in
Ireland to keep firm to the Whig interest; for that Lord Treasurer would
certainly declare for it after the peace. Annesley said twenty people
had told him this. You must know this is what they endeavour to report
of Lord Treasurer, that he designs to declare for the Whigs; and a
Scotch fellow has wrote the same to Scotland; and his meeting with
those lords gives occasion to such reports. Let me henceforth call
Lord Treasurer Eltee, because possibly my letters may be opened. Pray
remember Eltee. You know the reason; L.T. and Eltee pronounced the same
way. Stay, 'tis five weeks since I had a letter from MD. I allow you
six. You see why I cannot come over the beginning of April; whoever has
to do with this Ministry can fix no time: but as(5) hope saved, it is
not Pdfr's fault. Pay don't blame poo Pdfr. Nite deelest logues MD.(6)

23. I dined to-day at Sir Thomas Hanmer's, by an old appointment: there
was the Duke of Ormond, and Lord and Lady Orkney. I left them at six.
Everybody is as sour as vinegar. I endeavour to keep a firm friendship
between the Duke of Ormond and Eltee. (Oo know who Eltee is, or have oo
fordot already?) I have great designs, if I can compass them; but delay
is rooted in Eltee's heart; yet the fault is not altogether there, that
things are no better. Here is the cursedest libel in verse come out that
ever was seen, called The Ambassadress;(7) it is very dull, too; it has
been printed three or four different ways, and is handed about, but not
sold. It abuses the Queen horribly. The Examiner has cleared me to-day
of being author of his paper, and done it with great civilities to
me.(8) I hope it will stop people's mouths; if not, they must go on and
be hanged, I care not. 'Tis terribly rainy weather, I'll go sleep. Nite
deelest MD.

24. It rained all this day, and ruined me in coach-hire. I went to
Colonel Disney, who is past danger. Then I visited Lord Keeper, who was
at dinner; but I would not dine with him, but drove to Lord Treasurer
(Eltee I mean), paid the coachman, and went in; but he dined abroad: so
I was forced to call the coachman again, and went to Lord Bolingbroke's.
He dined abroad too; and at Lord Dupplin's I alighted, and by good
luck got a dinner there, and then went to the Latin play at Westminster
School, acted by the boys; and Lord Treasurer (Eltee I mean again)
honoured them with his presence. Lady Masham's eldest son, about two
years old, is ill, and I am afraid will not live: she is full of grief,
and I pity and am angry with her. Four shillings to-day in coach-hire;
fais, it won't do. Our pe