er's, the French Ambassador, Duke
d'Aumont, sent Lord Treasurer word that his house was burnt down to the
ground. It took fire in the upper rooms, while he was at dinner with
Monteleon, the Spanish Ambassador, and other persons; and soon after
Lord Bolingbroke came to us with the same story. We are full of
speculations upon it, but I believe it was the carelessness of his
French rascally servants. 'Tis odd that this very day Lord Somers,
Wharton, Sunderland, Halifax, and the whole club of Whig lords, dined at
Pontack's(3) in the City, as I received private notice. They have some
damned design. I tell you another odd thing; I was observing it to Lord
Treasurer, that he was stabbed on the day King William died; and the
day I saved his life, by opening the bandbox,(4) was King William's
birthday. My friend Mr. Lewis has had a lie spread on him by the mistake
of a man, who went to another of his name, to give him thanks for
passing his Privy Seal to come from France.(5) That other Lewis spread
about that the man brought him thanks from Lord Perth and Lord Melfort
(two lords with the Pretender), for his great services, etc. The Lords
will examine that t'other Lewis to-morrow in council; and I believe
you will hear of it in the prints, for I will make Abel Roper give
a relation of it. Pray tell me if it be necessary to write a little
plainer; for I looked over a bit of my last letter, and could hardly
read it. I'll mend my hand, if oo please: but you are more used to it
nor I, as Mr. Raymond says. Nite MD.

27. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer: this makes four days together;
and he has invited me again to-morrow, but I absolutely refused him.
I was this evening at a christening with him of Lord Dupplin's(6)
daughter. He went away at ten; but they kept me and some others till
past twelve; so you may be sure 'tis late, as they say. We have now
stronger suspicions that the Duke d'Aumont's house was set on fire by
malice. I was to-day to see Lord Keeper, who has quite lost his voice
with a cold. There Dr. Radcliffe told me that it was the Ambassador's
confectioner set the house on fire by boiling sugar, and going down and
letting it boil over. Yet others still think differently; so I know not
what to judge. Nite my own deelest MD, rove Pdfr.

28. I was to-day at Court, where the Spanish Ambassador talked to me as
if he did not suspect any design in burning d'Aumont's house: but Abbe
Gaultier, Secretary for France here, said quite otherwise; and that
d'Aumont had a letter the very same day to let him know his house should
be burnt, and they tell several other circumstances too tedious to
write. One is, that a fellow mending the tiles just when the fire broke
out, saw a pot with wildfire(7) in the room. I dined with Lord Orkney.
Neither Lord Abercorn nor Selkirk will now speak with me. I have
disobliged both sides. Nite dear MD.

29. Our Society met to-day, fourteen of us, and at a tavern. We now
resolve to meet but once a fortnight, and have a Committee every other
week of six or seven, to consult about doing some good. I proposed
another message to Lord Treasurer by three principal members, to give a
hundred guineas to a certain person, and they are to urge it as well as
they can. We also raised sixty guineas upon our own Society; but I made
them do it by sessors,(8) and I was one of them, and we fitted our tax
to the several estates. The Duke of Ormond pays ten guineas, and I the
third part of a guinea; at that rate, they may tax as often as they
please. Well, but I must answer oor rettle, ung oomens: not yet; 'tis
rate now, and I can't tind it. Nite deelest MD.

30. I have drank Spa waters this two or three days; but they do not
pass, and make me very giddy. I an't well; faith, I'll take them no
more. I sauntered after church with the Provost to-day to see a library
to be sold, and dined at five with Lord Orkney. We still think there was
malice in burning d'Aumont's house. I hear little Harrison(9) is come
over; it was he I sent to Utrecht. He is now Queen's Secretary to the
Embassy, and has brought with him the Barrier Treaty, as it is now
corrected by us, and yielded to by the Dutch, which was the greatest
difficulty to retard the peace. I hope he will bring over the peace a
month hence, for we will send him back as soon as possible. I long
to see the little brat, my own creature. His pay is in all a thousand
pounds a year, and they have never paid him a groat, though I have
teased their hearts out. He must be three or four hundred pounds in debt
at least, the brat! Let me go to bed, sollahs.--Nite dee richar MD.

31. Harrison was with me this morning: we talked three hours, and then
I carried him to Court. When we went down to the door of my lodging, I
found a coach waited for him. I chid him for it; but he whispered me it
was impossible to do otherwise; and in the coach he told me he had not
one farthing in his pocket to pay it; and therefore took the coach for
the whole day, and intended to borrow money somewhere or other. So
there was the Queen's Minister entrusted in affairs of the greatest
importance, without a shilling in