of better exercise, and dined privately with a hang-dog in the
City, and walked back in the evening. The days are now long enough to
walk in the Park after dinner; and so I do whenever it is fair. This
walking is a strange remedy: Mr. Prior walks, to make himself fat, and
I to bring myself down; he has generally a cough, which he only calls a
cold; we often walk round the Park together. So I'll go sleep.

22. It snowed all this morning prodigiously, and was some inches thick
in three or four hours. I dined with Mr. Lewis of the Secretary's office
at his lodgings: the chairmen that carried me squeezed a great fellow
against a wall, who wisely turned his back, and broke one of the
side-glasses in a thousand pieces. I fell a scolding, pretended I was
like to be cut to pieces, and made them set down the chair in the Park,
while they picked out the bits of glasses; and, when I paid them, I
quarrelled still; so they dared not grumble, and I came off for my fare;
but I was plaguily afraid they would have said, "God bless your honour,
won't you give us something for our glass?" Lewis and I were forming
a project how I might get three or four hundred pounds,(22) which
I suppose may come to nothing. I hope Smyth has brought you your
palsy-drops. How does Stella do? I begin more and more to desire to
know. The three weeks since I had your last is over within two days, and
I will allow three for accidents.

23. The snow is gone every bit, except the remainder of some great balls
made by the boys. Mr. Sterne was with me this morning about an affair he
has before the Treasury. That drab Mrs. Edgworth is not yet set out, but
will infallibly next Monday: and this is the third infallible Monday,
and pox take her! So you will have this letter first; and this shall go
to-morrow; and, if I have one from MD in that time, I will not answer it
till my next; only I will say, "Madam, I received your letter, and so,
and so." I dined to-day with my Mistress Butler,(23) who grows very
disagreeable.

24. Morning. This letter certainly goes this evening, sure as you're
alive, young women, and then you will be so shamed that I have had none
from you; and, if I was to reckon like you, I would say, I were six
letters before you, for this is N.16, and I have had your N.10. But I
reckon you have received but fourteen, and have sent eleven. I think to
go to-day a Minister-of-State-hunting in the Court of Requests; for
I have something to say to Mr. Harley. And it is fine, cold, sunshiny
weather; I wish dear MD would walk this morning in your Stephen's Green;
'tis as good as our Park, but not so large.(24) Faith, this summer we'll
take a coach for sixpence(25) to the Green Well, the two walks, and
thence all the way to Stoyte's.(26) My hearty service to Goody Stoyte
and Catherine; and I hope Mrs. Walls had a good time. How inconstant I
am! I can't imagine I was ever in love with her. Well, I'm going; what
have you to say? I DO NOT CARE HOW I WRITE NOW.(27) I don't design to
write on this side; these few lines are but so much more than your
due; so I will write LARGE or small as I please. O, faith, my hands are
starving in bed; I believe it is a hard frost. I must rise, and bid
you good-bye, for I'll seal this letter immediately, and carry it in
my pocket, and put it into the post-office with my own fair hands.
Farewell.

This letter is just a fortnight's journal to-day. Yes, and so it is, I'm
sure, says you, with your two eggs a penny.

Lele, lele, lele.(28)

O Lord, I am saying lele, lele, to myself, in all our little keys: and,
now you talk of keys, that dog Patrick broke the key-general of the
chest of drawers with six locks, and I have been so plagued to get a new
one, besides my good two shillings!




LETTER 17.

LONDON, Feb. 24, 1710-11.

Now, young women, I gave in my sixteenth this evening. I dined with Ford
(it was his Opera-day) as usual; it is very convenient to me to do so,
for coming home early after a walk in the Park, which now the days will
allow. I called on the Secretary at his office, and he had forgot to
give the memorial about Bernage to the Duke of Argyle; but, two days
ago, I met the Duke, who desired I would give it him myself, which
should have more power with him than all the Ministry together, as he
protested solemnly, repeated it two or three times, and bid me count
upon it. So that I verily believe Bernage will be in a very good way
to establish himself. I think I can do no more for him at present, and
there's an end of that; and so get you gone to bed, for it is late.

25. The three weeks are out yesterday since I had your last, and so now
I will be expecting every day a pretty dear letter from my own MD, and
hope to hear that Stella has been much better in her head and eyes:
my head continues as it was, no fits, but a little disorder every day,
which I can easily bear, if it will not grow worse. I dined to-day with
Mr. Secretary St. John, on condition I might choose my company, which
were Lord Rivers, Lord Carteret, Sir Thomas Mansel,(1) and Mr. Lewis; I
invited Masham, Hill, Sir John Stanley, and George Granville, but they
were 