a letter from Parvisol, who tells me he gave Mrs. Walls a
bill of twenty pounds for me, to be given to you; but you have not sent
it. This night the Parliament is dissolved: great news from Spain;
King Charles and Stanhope are at Madrid, and Count Staremberg has taken
Pampeluna. Farewell. This is from St. James's Coffee-house. I will begin
my answer to your letter to-night, but not send it this week. Pray tell
me whether you like this journal way of writing.--I don't like your
reasons for not going to Trim. Parvisol tells me he can sell your horse.
Sell it, with a pox? Pray let him know that he shall sell his soul as
soon. What? sell anything that Stella loves, and may sometimes ride? It
is hers, and let her do as she pleases: pray let him know this by the
first that you know goes to Trim. Let him sell my grey, and be hanged.




LETTER 4.

LONDON, Sept. 21, 1710.

Here must I begin another letter, on a whole sheet, for fear saucy
little MD should be angry, and think MUCH that the paper is too LITTLE.
I had your letter this night, as told you just and no more in my last;
for this must be taken up in answering yours, saucebox. I believe I told
you where I dined to-day; and to-morrow I go out of town for two days to
dine with the same company on Sunday; Molesworth(1) the Florence Envoy,
Stratford, and some others. I heard to-day that a gentlewoman from Lady
Giffard's house had been at the Coffee-house to inquire for me. It was
Stella's mother, I suppose. I shall send her a penny-post letter(2)
to-morrow, and contrive to see her without hazarding seeing Lady
Giffard, which I will not do until she begs my pardon.

22. I dined to-day at Hampstead with Lady Lucy, etc., and when I got
home found a letter from Joe, with one enclosed to Lord Wharton, which I
will send to his Excellency, and second it as well as I can; but to talk
of getting the Queen's order is a jest. Things are in such a combustion
here, that I am advised not to meddle yet in the affair I am upon, which
concerns the clergy of a whole kingdom; and does he think anybody will
trouble the Queen about Joe? We shall, I hope, get a recommendation from
the Lord Lieutenant to the trustees for the linen business, and I hope
that will do; and so I will write to him in a few days, and he must have
patience. This is an answer to part of your letter as well as his. I
lied; it is to-morrow I go to the country, and I won't answer a bit more
of your letter yet.

23. Here is such a stir and bustle with this little MD of ours; I must
be writing every night; I can't go to bed without a word to them; I
can't put out my candle till I have bid them good-night: O Lord, O
Lord! Well, I dined the first time to-day, with Will Frankland and his
fortune: she is not very handsome. Did I not say I would go out of town
to-day? I hate lying abroad and clutter; I go tomorrow in Frankland's
chariot, and come back at night. Lady Berkeley has invited me
to Berkeley Castle, and Lady Betty Germaine(3) to Drayton in
Northamptonshire; and I'll go to neither. Let me alone, I must finish my
pamphlet. I have sent a long letter to Bickerstaff:(4) let the Bishop
of Clogher smoke(5) it if he can. Well, I'll write to the Bishop of
Killala; but you might have told him how sudden and unexpected my
journey was though. Deuce take Lady S---; and if I know D---y, he is a
rawboned-faced fellow, not handsome, nor visibly so young as you say:
she sacrifices two thousand pounds a year, and keeps only six hundred.
Well, you have had all my land journey in my second letter, and so much
for that. So, you have got into Presto's lodgings; very fine, truly! We
have had a fortnight of the most glorious weather on earth, and still
continues: I hope you have made the best of it. Ballygall(6) will be a
pure(7) good place for air, if Mrs. Ashe makes good her promise. Stella
writes like an emperor: I am afraid it hurts your eyes; take care of
that pray, pray, Mrs. Stella. Can't you do what you will with your own
horse? Pray don't let that puppy Parvisol sell him. Patrick is drunk
about three times a week, and I bear it, and he has got the better of
me; but one of these days I will positively turn him off to the wide
world, when none of you are by to intercede for him.--Stuff--how can
I get her husband into the Charter-house? get a ---- into the
Charter-house.--Write constantly! Why, sirrah, don't I write every day,
and sometimes twice a day to MD? Now I have answered all your letter,
and the rest must be as it can be: send me my bill. Tell Mrs. Brent what
I say of the Charter-house. I think this enough for one night; and so
farewell till this time to-morrow.

24. To-day I dined six miles out of town at Will Pate's, with Stratford,
Frankland, and the Molesworths,(8) and came home at night, and was weary
and lazy. I can say no more now, but good-night.

25. I was so lazy to-day that I dined at next door,(9) and have sat at
home since six, writing to the Bishop of Clogher, Dean Sterne, and Mr.
Manley: the last, because I am in fear for him about his place, and have
sent him my opinion, what I and his other friends here think he ought
to