efused, because he would not keep the day of his
stabbing with all the Cabinet, as he intended: so I dined with my
friend Lewis; and the Provost and Parnell, and Ford, was with us. I
lost sixteen shillings at ombre; I don't like it, as etc. At night Lewis
brought us word that the Parliament does not sit to-morrow. I hope
they are sure of the peace by next week, and then they are right in
my opinion: otherwise I think they have done wrong, and might have sat
three weeks ago. People will grumble; but Lord Treasurer cares not a
rush. Lord Keeper is suddenly taken ill of a quinsy, and some lords are
commissioned, I think Lord Trevor,(17) to prorogue the Parliament in his
stead. You never saw a town so full of ferment and expectation. Mr. Pope
has published a fine poem, called Windsor Forest.(18) Read it. Nite.

10. I was early this morning to see Lord Bolingbroke. I find he was of
opinion the Parliament should sit; and says they are not sure the peace
will be signed next week. The prorogation is to this day se'nnight. I
went to look on a library I am going to buy, if we can agree. I have
offered a hundred and twenty pounds, and will give ten more. Lord
Bolingbroke will lend me the money. I was two hours poring on the books.
I will sell some of them, and keep the rest; but I doubt they won't take
the money. I dined in the City, and sat an hour in the evening with Lord
Treasurer, who was in very good humour; but reproached me for not dining
with him yesterday and to-day. What will all this come to? Lord Keeper
had a pretty good night, and is better. I was in pain for him. How do oo
do sollahs?... Nite MD.(19)

11. I was this morning to visit the Duke and Duchess of Ormond, and
the Duchess of Hamilton, and went with the Provost to an auction of
pictures, and laid out fourteen shillings. I am in for it, if I had
money; but I doubt I shall be undone; for Sir Andrew Fountaine invited
the Provost and me to dine with him, and play at ombre, when I fairly
lost fourteen shillings. Fais, it won't do; and I shall be out of
conceit with play this good while. I am come home; and it is late, and
my puppy let out my fire, and I am gone to bed and writing there, and
it is past twelve a good while. Went out four matadores and a trump in
black, and was bested. Vely bad, fais! Nite my deelest logues MD.

12. I was at another auction of pictures to-day, and a great auction it
was. I made Lord Masham lay out forty pounds. There were pictures sold
of twice as much value apiece. Our Society met to-day at the Duke of
Beaufort's: a prodigious fine dinner, which I hate; but we did some
business. Our printer was to attend us, as usual; and the Chancellor of
the Exchequer sent the author of the Examiner(20) twenty guineas. He is
an ingenious fellow, but the most confounded vain coxcomb in the world,
so that I dare not let him see me, nor am acquainted with him. I had
much discourse with the Duke of Ormond this morning, and am driving
some points to secure us all in case of accidents, etc.(21) I left the
Society at seven. I can't drink now at all with any pleasure. I love
white Portugal wine better than claret, champagne, or burgundy. I have a
sad vulgar appetite. I remember Ppt used to maunder, when I came from a
great dinner, and DD had but a bit of mutton. I cannot endure above one
dish; nor ever could since I was a boy, and loved stuffing. It was a
fine day, which is a rarity with us, I assure (you). Never fair two days
together. Nite dee MD.

13. I had a rabble of Irish parsons this morning drinking my chocolate.
I cannot remember appointments. I was to have supped last night with the
Swedish Envoy at his house, and some other company, but forgot it; and
he rallied me to-day at Lord Bolingbroke's, who excused me, saying, the
Envoy ought not to be angry, because I serve Lord Treasurer and him the
same way. For that reason, I very seldom promise to go anywhere. I dined
with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for being absent so long, as he always
does if I miss a day. I sat three hours this evening with Lady Jersey;
but the first two hours she was at ombre with some company. I left Lord
Treasurer at eight: I fancied he was a little thoughtful, for he was
playing with an orange by fits, which, I told him, among common men
looked like the spleen. This letter shall not go to-morrow; no haste,
ung oomens; nothing that presses. I promised but once in three weeks,
and I am better than my word. I wish the peace may be ready, I mean that
we have notice it is signed, before Tuesday; otherwise the grumbling
will much increase. Nite logues.

14. It was a lovely day this, and I took the advantage of walking a good
deal in the Park, before I went to Court. Colonel Disney, one of our
Society, is ill of a fever, and, we fear, in great danger. We all love
him mightily, and he would be a great loss. I doubt I shall not buy the
library; for a roguey bookseller has offered sixty pounds more than I
designed to give; so you see I meant to have a good bargain. I dined
with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday company; but there were but seven
at table. Lord Peterborrow is ill, and spits b