yage to Glubbdubdrib.  His reception by the governor.

The continent, of which this kingdom is apart, extends itself, as I have
reason to believe, eastward, to that unknown tract of America westward of
California; and north, to the Pacific Ocean, which is not above a hundred
and fifty miles from Lagado; where there is a good port, and much
commerce with the great island of Luggnagg, situated to the north-west
about 29 degrees north latitude, and 140 longitude.  This island of
Luggnagg stands south-eastward of Japan, about a hundred leagues distant.
There is a strict alliance between the Japanese emperor and the king of
Luggnagg; which affords frequent opportunities of sailing from one island
to the other.  I determined therefore to direct my course this way, in
order to my return to Europe.  I hired two mules, with a guide, to show
me the way, and carry my small baggage.  I took leave of my noble
protector, who had shown me so much favour, and made me a generous
present at my departure.

My journey was without any accident or adventure worth relating.  When I
arrived at the port of Maldonada (for so it is called) there was no ship
in the harbour bound for Luggnagg, nor likely to be in some time.  The
town is about as large as Portsmouth.  I soon fell into some
acquaintance, and was very hospitably received.  A gentleman of
distinction said to me, “that since the ships bound for Luggnagg could
not be ready in less than a month, it might be no disagreeable amusement
for me to take a trip to the little island of Glubbdubdrib, about five
leagues off to the south-west.”  He offered himself and a friend to
accompany me, and that I should be provided with a small convenient bark
for the voyage.

Glubbdubdrib, as nearly as I can interpret the word, signifies the island
of sorcerers or magicians.  It is about one third as large as the Isle of
Wight, and extremely fruitful: it is governed by the head of a certain
tribe, who are all magicians.  This tribe marries only among each other,
and the eldest in succession is prince or governor.  He has a noble
palace, and a park of about three thousand acres, surrounded by a wall of
hewn stone twenty feet high.  In this park are several small enclosures
for cattle, corn, and gardening.

The governor and his family are served and attended by domestics of a
kind somewhat unusual.  By his skill in necromancy he has a power of
calling whom he pleases from the dead, and commanding their service for
twenty-four hours, but no longer; nor can he call the same persons up
again in less than three months, except upon very extraordinary
occasions.

When we arrived at the island, which was about eleven in the morning, one
of the gentlemen who accompanied me went to the governor, and desired
admittance for a stranger, who came on purpose to have the honour of
attending on his highness.  This was immediately granted, and we all
three entered the gate of the palace between two rows of guards, armed
and dressed after a very antic manner, and with something in their
countenances that made my flesh creep with a horror I cannot express.  We
passed through several apartments, between servants of the same sort,
ranked on each side as before, till we came to the chamber of presence;
where, after three profound obeisances, and a few general questions, we
were permitted to sit on three stools, near the lowest step of his
highness’s throne.  He understood the language of Balnibarbi, although it
was different from that of this island.  He desired me to give him some
account of my travels; and, to let me see that I should be treated
without ceremony, he dismissed all his attendants with a turn of his
finger; at which, to my great astonishment, they vanished in an instant,
like visions in a dream when we awake on a sudden.  I could not recover
myself in some time, till the governor assured me, “that I should receive
no hurt:” and observing my two companions to be under no concern, who had
been often entertained in the same manner, I began to take courage, and
related to his highness a short history of my several adventures; yet not
without some hesitation, and frequently looking behind me to the place
where I had seen those domestic spectres.  I had the honour to dine with
the governor, where a new set of ghosts served up the meat, and waited at
table.  I now observed myself to be less terrified than I had been in the
morning.  I stayed till sunset, but humbly desired his highness to excuse
me for not accepting his invitation of lodging in the palace.  My two
friends and I lay at a private house in the town adjoining, which is the
capital of this little island; and the next morning we returned to pay
our duty to the governor, as he was pleased to command us.

After this manner we continued in the island for ten days, most part of
every day with the governor, and at night in our lodging.  I soon grew so
familiarized to the sight of spirits, that after the third or fourth time
they gave me no emotion at all: or, if I had any apprehensions left, my
curiosity prevailed over them.  For his highness the governor ordered me
“to 