went after Lady Betty, and all was well.
There is something of farce in all these mournings, let them be ever
so serious. People will pretend to grieve more than they really do,
and that takes off from their true grief. I then went to the Duchess of
Hamilton, who never grieved, but raged, and stormed, and railed.(18) She
is pretty quiet now, but has a diabolical temper. Lord Keeper and his
son, and their two ladies, and I, dined to-day with Mr. Caesar,(19)
Treasurer of the Navy, at his house in the City, where he keeps his
office. We happened to talk of Brutus, and I said something in his
praise, when it struck me immediately that I had made a blunder in doing
so; and, therefore, I recollected myself, and said, "Mr. Caesar, I beg
your pardon." So we laughed, etc. Nite, my own deelest richar logues,
MD.

15. I forgot to tell you that last night I had a present sent me (I
found it, when I came home, in my chamber) of the finest wild fowl I
ever saw, with the vilest letter, and from the vilest poet in the world,
who sent it me as a bribe to get him an employment. I knew not where
the scoundrel lived, so I could not send them back, and therefore I gave
them away as freely as I got them, and have ordered my man never to let
up the poet when he comes. The rogue should have kept the wings at least
for his muse. One of his fowls was a large capon pheasant, as fat as
a pullet. I ate share of it to-day with a friend. We have now a
Drawing-room every Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday at one o'clock. The
Queen does not come out; but all her Ministers, foreigners, and persons
of quality are at it. I was there to-day; and as Lord Treasurer came
towards me, I avoided him, and he hunted me thrice about the room. I
affect never to take notice of him at church or Court. He knows it, for
I have told him so; and to-night, at Lord Masham's, he gave an account
of it to the company; but my reasons are, that people seeing me speak to
him causes a great deal of teasing. I tell you what comes into my head,
that I never knew whether MD were Whigs or Tories, and I value our
conversation the more that it never turned on that subject. I have
a fancy that Ppt is a Tory, and a violent one. I don't know why; but
methinks she looks like one, and DD a sort of a Trimmer. Am I right? I
gave the Examiner a hint about this prorogation, and to praise the
Queen for her tenderness to the Dutch in giving them still more time to
submit.(20) It fitted the occasions at present. Nite MD.

16. I was busy to-day at the Secretary's office, and stayed till past
three. The Duke of Ormond and I were to dine at Lord Orkney's. The Duke
was at the Committee, so I thought all was safe. When I went there, they
had almost dined; for the Duke had sent to excuse himself, which I never
knew. I came home at seven, and began a little whim, which just came
into my head; and will make a threepenny pamphlet.(21) It shall be
finished and out in a week; and if it succeeds, you shall know what it
is; otherwise, not. I cannot send this to-morrow, and will put it off
till next Saturday, because I have much business. So my journals shall
be short, and Ppt must have patience. So nite, dee sollahs.

17. This rogue Parnell has not yet corrected his poem, and I would
fain have it out. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, and his Saturday
company, nine of us in all. They went away at seven, and Lord Treasurer
and I sat talking an hour after. After dinner he was talking to the
lords about the speech the Queen must make when the Parliament meets. He
asked me how I would make it. I was going to be serious, because it
was seriously put; but I turned it to a jest. And because they had been
speaking of the Duchess of Marlborough going to Flanders after the Duke,
I said the speech should begin thus: "My Lords and Gentlemen, In order
to my own quiet, and that of my subjects, I have thought fit to send
the Duchess of Marlborough abroad after the Duke." This took well,
and turned off the discourse. I must tell you I do not at all like the
present situation of affairs, and remember I tell you so. Things must be
on another foot, or we are all undone. I hate this driving always to an
inch. Nite MD.

18. We had a mighty full Court to-day. Dilly was with me at the French
church, and edified mightily. The Duke of Ormond and I dined at Lord
Orkney's; but I left them at seven, and came home to my whim. I have
made a great progress. My large Treatise(22) stands stock still. Some
think it too dangerous to publish, and would have me print only what
relates to the peace. I cannot tell what I shall do.--The Bishop of
Dromore is dying. They thought yesterday he could not live two hours;
yet he is still alive, but is utterly past all hopes. Go to cards,
sollahs, and nite.

19. I was this morning to see the Duke and Duchess of Ormond. The
Duke d'Aumont came in while I was with the Duke of Ormond, and we
complimented each other like dragons. A poor fellow called at the door
where I lodge, with a parcel of oranges for a present for me. I bid my
man know what his name was, and whence he came. He sent word his name
was Bun, and tha