in among them. Here was the scoundrel brother
always crying in the outer room till Sir Andrew was in danger; and
the dog was to have all his estate if he died; and it is an ignorant,
worthless, scoundrel-rake: and the nurses were comforting him, and
desiring he would not take on so. I dined to-day the first time with
Ophy Butler(4) and his wife; and you supped with the Dean, and lost
two-and-twenty pence at cards. And so Mrs. Walls is brought to bed of
a girl, who died two days after it was christened; and, betwixt you and
me, she is not very sorry: she loves her ease and diversions too well to
be troubled with children. I will go to bed.

6. Morning. I went last night to put some coals on my fire after Patrick
was gone to bed; and there I saw in a closet a poor linnet he has bought
to bring over to Dingley: it cost him sixpence, and is as tame as a
dormouse. I believe he does not know he is a bird: where you put him,
there he stands, and seems to have neither hope nor fear; I suppose in a
week he will die of the spleen. Patrick advised with me before he bought
him. I laid fairly before him the greatness of the sum, and the rashness
of the attempt; showed how impossible it was to carry him safe over the
salt sea: but he would not take my counsel; and he will repent it. 'Tis
very cold this morning in bed; and I hear there is a good fire in the
room without (what do you call it?), the dining-room. I hope it will be
good weather, and so let me rise, sirrahs, do so.--At night. I was this
morning to visit the Dean,(5) or Mr. Prolocutor, I think you call him,
don't you? Why should not I go to the Dean's as well as you? A little,
black man, of pretty near fifty? Ay, the same. A good, pleasant man? Ay,
the same. Cunning enough? Yes. One that understands his own interests?
As well as anybody. How comes it MD and I don't meet there sometimes? A
very good face, and abundance of wit? Do you know his lady? O Lord! whom
do you mean?(6) I mean Dr. Atterbury, Dean of Carlisle and Prolocutor.
Pshaw, Presto, you are a fool: I thought you had meant our Dean of St.
Patrick's.--Silly, silly, silly, you are silly, both are silly, every
kind of thing is silly. As I walked into the city I was stopped with
clusters of boys and wenches buzzing about the cake-shops like flies.(7)
There had the fools let out their shops two yards forward into the
streets, all spread with great cakes frothed with sugar, and stuck with
streamers of tinsel. And then I went to Bateman's the bookseller, and
laid out eight-and-forty shillings for books. I bought three little
volumes of Lucian in French for our Stella, and so and so. Then I went
to Garraway's(8) to meet Stratford and dine with him; but it was an idle
day with the merchants, and he was gone to our end of the town: so I
dined with Sir Thomas Frankland at the Post Office, and we drank your
Manley's health. It was in a newspaper that he was turned out; but
Secretary St. John told me it was false: only that newswriter is a
plaguy Tory. I have not seen one bit of Christmas merriment.

7. Morning. Your new Lord Chancellor(9) sets out to-morrow for Ireland:
I never saw him. He carries over one Trapp(10) a parson as his chaplain,
a sort of pretender to wit, a second-rate pamphleteer for the cause,
whom they pay by sending him to Ireland. I never saw Trapp neither. I
met Tighe(11) and your Smyth of Lovet's yesterday by the Exchange. Tighe
and I took no notice of each other; but I stopped Smyth, and told him of
the box that lies for you at Chester, because he says he goes very soon
to Ireland, I think this week: and I will send this morning to Sterne,
to take measures with Smyth; so good-morrow, sirrahs, and let me rise,
pray. I took up this paper when I came in at evening, I mean this
minute, and then said I, "No, no, indeed, MD, you must stay"; and then
was laying it aside, but could not for my heart, though I am very busy,
till I just ask you how you do since morning; by and by we shall talk
more, so let me leave you: softly down, little paper, till then; so
there--now to business; there, I say, get you gone; no, I will not push
you neither, but hand you on one side--So--Now I am got into bed, I'll
talk with you. Mr. Secretary St. John sent for me this morning in all
haste; but I would not lose my shaving, for fear of missing church. I
went to Court, which is of late always very full; and young Manley and
I dined at Sir Matthew Dudley's.--I must talk politics. I protest I am
afraid we shall all be embroiled with parties. The Whigs, now they are
fallen, are the most malicious toads in the world. We have had now a
second misfortune, the loss of several Virginia ships. I fear people
will begin to think that nothing thrives under this Ministry: and if the
Ministry can once be rendered odious to the people, the Parliament may
be chosen Whig or Tory as the Queen pleases. Then I think our friends
press a little too hard on the Duke of Marlborough. The country
members(12) are violent to have past faults inquired into, and they have
reason; but I do not observe the Ministry to be very fond of it. In my
opinion we have nothing