) that I may have them the sooner. My
Lord Mountjoy(11) is now in the humour that we should begin our journey
this afternoon; so that I have stole here again to finish this letter,
which must be short or long accordingly. I write this post to Mrs.
Wesley,(12) and will tell her, that I have taken care she may have her
bill of one hundred and fifteen pounds whenever she pleases to send for
it; and in that case I desire you will send it her enclosed and sealed,
and have it ready so, in case she should send for it: otherwise keep it.
I will say no more till I hear whether I go to-day or no: if I do, the
letter is almost at an end. My cozen Abigail is grown prodigiously old.
God Almighty bless poo dee richar MD; and, for God's sake, be merry, and
get oo health. I am perfectly resolved to return as soon as I have done
my commission, whether it succeeds or no. I never went to England with
so little desire in my life. If Mrs. Curry(13) makes any difficulty
about the lodgings, I will quit them and pay her from July 9 last, and
Mrs. Brent(14) must write to Parvisol(15) with orders accordingly. The
post is come from London, and just going out; so I have only time to
pray God to bless poor richr MD FW FW MD MD ME ME ME.




LETTER 2.

LONDON, Sept. 9, 1710.

Got here last Thursday,(1) after five days' travelling, weary the first,
almost dead the second, tolerable the third, and well enough the rest;
and am now glad of the fatigue, which has served for exercise; and I am
at present well enough. The Whigs were ravished to see me, and would
lay hold on me as a twig while they are drowning,(2) and the great men
making me their clumsy apologies, etc. But my Lord Treasurer(3) received
me with a great deal of coldness, which has enraged me so, I am almost
vowing revenge. I have not yet gone half my circle; but I find all my
acquaintance just as I left them. I hear my Lady Giffard(4) is much at
Court, and Lady Wharton(5) was ridiculing it t'other day; so I have
lost a friend there. I have not yet seen her, nor intend it; but I will
contrive to see Stella's mother(6) some other way. I writ to the Bishop
of Clogher from Chester; and I now write to the Archbishop of Dublin.(7)
Everything is turning upside down; every Whig in great office will, to a
man, be infallibly put out; and we shall have such a winter as hath not
been seen in England. Everybody asks me, how I came to be so long in
Ireland, as naturally as if here were my being; but no soul offers to
make it so: and I protest I shall return to Dublin, and the Canal at
Laracor,(8) with more satisfaction than ever I did in my life. The
Tatler(9) expects every day to be turned out of his employment; and the
Duke of Ormond,(10) they say, will be Lieutenant of Ireland. I hope you
are now peaceably in Presto's(11) lodgings; but I resolve to turn you
out by Christmas; in which time I shall either do my business, or find
it not to be done. Pray be at Trim by the time this letter comes to
you; and ride little Johnson, who must needs be now in good case. I have
begun this letter unusually, on the post-night, and have already written
to the Archbishop; and cannot lengthen this. Henceforth I will write
something every day to MD, and make it a sort of journal; and when it
is full, I will send it, whether MD writes or no; and so that will
be pretty: and I shall always be in conversation with MD, and MD with
Presto. Pray make Parvisol pay you the ten pounds immediately; so I
ordered him. They tell me I am grown fatter, and look better; and,
on Monday, Jervas(12) is to retouch my picture. I thought I saw Jack
Temple(13) and his wife pass by me to-day in their coach; but I took no
notice of them. I am glad I have wholly shaken off that family. Tell the
Provost,(14) I have obeyed his commands to the Duke of Ormond; or let
it alone, if you please. I saw Jemmy Leigh(15) just now at the
Coffee-house, who asked after you with great kindness: he talks of going
in a fortnight to Ireland. My service to the Dean,(16) and Mrs. Walls,
and her Archdeacon.(17) Will Frankland's(18) wife is near bringing
to-bed, and I have promised to christen the child. I fancy you had my
Chester letter the Tuesday after I writ. I presented Dr. Raymond to Lord
Wharton(19) at Chester. Pray let me know when Joe gets his money.(20)
It is near ten, and I hate to send by the bellman.(21) MD shall have
a longer letter in a week, but I send this only to tell I am safe in
London; and so farewell, etc.




LETTER 3.

LONDON, Sept. 9, 1710.

After seeing the Duke of Ormond, dining with Dr. Cockburn,(1) passing
some part of the afternoon with Sir Matthew Dudley(2) and Will
Frankland, the rest at St. James's Coffee-house, I came home, and writ
to the Archbishop of Dublin and MD, and am going to bed. I forgot to
tell you, that I begged Will Frankland to stand Manley's(3) friend with
his father in this shaking season for places. He told me, his father
was in danger to be out; that several were now soliciting for Manley's
place; that he was accused of opening letters; that Sir Thomas
Frankland(4) would sacrifice everything to save himself; and in that, I