 of
bile.

Jan. 1. Morning. I wish my dearest, pretty Dingley and Stella a happy
New Year, and health, and mirth, and good stomachs, and Fr's company.
Faith, I did not know how to write Fr. I wondered what was the matter;
but now I remember I always write Pdfr. Patrick wishes me a happy New
Year, and desires I would rise, for it is a good fire, and faith 'tis
cold. I was so politic last night with MD, never saw the like. Get the
Examiners, and read them; the last nine or ten are full of the reasons
for the late change, and of the abuses of the last Ministry; and
the great men assure me they are all true. They are written by
their encouragement and direction. I must rise and go see Sir
Andrew Fountaine; but perhaps to-night I may answer MD's letter: so
good-morrow, my mistresses all, good-morrow.

     I wish you both a merry New Year,
     Roast beef, minced pies, and good strong beer,
     And me a share of your good cheer,
     That I was there, or you were here;
     And you're a little saucy dear.

Good-morrow again, dear sirrahs; one cannot rise for your play.--At
night. I went this morning to visit Lady Kerry and Lord Shelburne; and
they made me dine with them. Sir Andrew Fountaine is better. And now
let us come and see what this saucy, dear letter of MD says. Come out,
letter, come out from between the sheets; here it is underneath, and
it will not come out. Come out again, I say: so there. Here it is. What
says Presto to me, pray? says it. Come, and let me answer for you to
your ladies. Hold up your head then, like a good letter. There. Pray,
how have you got up with Presto, Madam Stella? You write your eighth
when you receive mine: now I write my twelfth when I receive your
eighth. Do not you allow for what are upon the road, simpleton? What say
you to that? And so you kept Presto's little birthday, I warrant: would
to God I had been at the health rather than here, where I have no manner
of pleasure, nothing but eternal business upon my hands. I shall grow
wise in time; but no more of that: only I say Amen with my heart and
vitals, that we may never be asunder again ten days together while poor
Presto lives.

*****

I can't be merry so near any splenetic talk; so I made that long line,
and now all's well again. Yes, you are a pretending slut, indeed, with
your fourth and fifth in the margin, and your journal, and everything.
Wind--we saw no wind here, nothing at all extraordinary at any time. We
had it once when you had it not. But an old saying and a true:

     "I hate all wind,
      Before and behind,
      From cheeks with eyes,
      Or from blind.----"

Your chimney fall down! God preserve you. I suppose you only mean a
brick or two: but that's a d--ned lie of your chimney being carried
to the next house with the wind. Don't put such things upon us; those
matters will not pass here: keep a little to possibilities. My Lord
Hertford(12) would have been ashamed of such a stretch. You should take
care of what company you converse with: when one gets that faculty, 'tis
hard to break one's self of it. Jemmy Leigh talks of going over; but
quando? I do not know when he will go. Oh, now you have had my ninth,
now you are come up with me; marry come up with you, indeed. I know all
that business of Lady S----.(13) Will nobody cut that D--y's throat?
Five hundred pounds do you call poor pay for living three months the
life of a king? They say she died with grief, partly, being forced
to appear as a witness in court about some squabble among their
servants.--The Bishop of Clogher showed you a pamphlet.(14) Well, but
you must not give your mind to believe those things; people will say
anything. The Character is here reckoned admirable, but most of the
facts are trifles. It was first printed privately here; and then some
bold cur ventured to do it publicly, and sold two thousand in two
days: who the author is must remain uncertain. Do you pretend to
know, impudence? How durst you think so? Pox on your Parliaments: the
Archbishop has told me of it; but we do not vouchsafe to know anything
of it here. No, no, no more of your giddiness yet; thank you, Stella,
for asking after it; thank you; God Almighty bless you for your kindness
to poor Presto. You write to Lady Giffard and your mother upon what I
advise when it is too late. But yet I fancy this bad news will bring
down stocks so low, that one might buy to great advantage. I design to
venture going to see your mother some day when Lady Giffard is abroad.
Well, keep your Rathburn(15) and stuff. I thought he was to pay in
your money upon his houses to be flung down about the what do you call
it.--Well, Madam Dingley, I sent your enclosed to Bristol, but have not
heard from Raymond since he went. Come, come, young women, I keep a good
fire; it costs me twelvepence a week, and I fear something more; vex me,
and I will have one in my bed-chamber too. No, did not I tell you but
just now, we have no high winds here? Have you forgot already?--Now
you're at it again, silly Stella; why does your mother say my candles
are scandalous? They are good sixes in the pound, and she said I was