o ignorant as I thought you. I am glad to
hear oo walked so much in the country. Does DD ever read to you, ung
ooman? O, fais! I shall find strange doings hen I tum ole!(19) Here is
somebody coming that I must see that wants a little place; the son of
cousin Rooke's eldest daughter, that died many years ago. He's here.
Farewell, deelest MD MD MD ME ME ME FW FW FW, Lele.




LETTER 57.(1)

LONDON, Dec. 18, 1712.

Our Society was to meet to-day; but Lord Harley, who was President
this week, could not attend, being gone to Wimbledon with his new
brother-in-law, the young Marquis of Caermarthen, who married Lady Betty
Harley on Monday last; and Lord Treasurer is at Wimbledon too. However,
half a dozen of us met, and I propose our meetings should be once a
fortnight; for, between you and me, we do no good. It cost me nineteen
shillings to-day for my Club at dinner; I don't like it, fais. We have
terrible snowy slobbery weather. Lord Abercorn is come to town, and will
see me, whether I will or no. You know he has a pretence to a dukedom
in France, which the Duke of Hamilton was soliciting for; but Abercorn
resolves to spoil their title, if they will not allow him a fourth part;
and I have advised the Duchess to compound with him, and have made the
Ministry of my opinion. Night, dee sollahs, MD, MD.

19. Ay mally zis is sumsing rike,(2) for Pdfr to write journals again!
'Tis as natural as mother's milk, now I am got into it. Lord Treasurer
is returned from Wimbledon ('tis not above eight miles off), and sent
for me to dine with him at five; but I had the grace to be abroad,
and dined with some others, with honest Ben Tooke, by invitation. The
Duchess of Ormond promised me her picture, and coming home tonight,
I found hers and the Duke's both in my chamber. Was not that a pretty
civil surprise? Yes, and they are in fine gilded frames, too. I am
writing a letter to thank her, which I will send to-morrow morning.
I'll tell her she is such a prude that she will not let so much as her
picture be alone in a room with a man, unless the Duke's be with it;
and so forth.(3) We are full of snow, and dabbling. Lady Masham has come
abroad these three days, and seen the Queen. I dined with her t'other
day at her sister Hill's. I hope she will remove in a few days to her
new lodgings at St. James's from Kensington. Nite, dee logues MD.

20. I lodge (up) two pair of stairs, have but one room, and deny myself
to everybody almost, yet I cannot be quiet; and all my mornings are lost
with people, who will not take answers below stairs; such as Dilly, and
the Bishop, and Provost, etc. Lady Orkney invited me to dinner to-day,
which hindered me from dining with Lord Treasurer. This is his day that
his chief friends in the Ministry dine with him. However, I went there
about six, and sat with them till past nine, when they all went off; but
he kept me back, and told me the circumstances of Lady Betty's match.
The young fellow has 60,000 pounds ready money, three great houses
furnished, 7,000 pounds a year at present, and about five more after his
father and mother die. I think Lady Betty's portion is not above 8,000
pounds. I remember either Tisdall writ to me in somebody's letter,
or you did it for him, that I should mention him on occasion to Lord
Anglesea, with whom, he said, he had some little acquaintance. Lord
Anglesea was with me to-night at Lord Treasurer's; and then I asked him
about Tisdall, and described him. He said he never saw him, but that he
had sent him his book.(4) See what it is to be a puppy. Pray tell Mr.
Walls that Lord Anglesea thanked me for recommending Clements(5) to him;
that he says he is 20,000 pounds the better for knowing Clements. But
pray don't let Clements go and write a letter of thanks, and tell
my lord that he hears so and so, etc. Why, 'tis but like an Irish
understanding to do so. Sad weather; two shillings in coaches to-day,
and yet I am dirty. I am now going to read over something and correct
it. So, nite.

21. Puppies have got a new way of plaguing me. I find letters directed
for me at Lord Treasurer's, sometimes with enclosed ones to him, and
sometimes with projects, and some times with libels. I usually keep them
three or four days without opening. I was at Court to-day, as I always
am on Sundays, instead of a coffee-house, to see my acquaintance.
This day se'nnight, after I had been talking at Court with Sir William
Wyndham, the Spanish Ambassador(6) came to him and said he heard that
was Dr. Swift, and desired him to tell me that his master, and the
King of France, and the Queen, were more obliged to me than any man in
Europe; so we bowed, and shook hands, etc. I took it very well of him. I
dined with Lord Treasurer, and must again to-morrow, though I had rather
not (as DD says); but now the Queen is in town, he does not keep me so
late. I have not had time to see Fanny Manley since she came, but intend
it one of these days. Her uncle, Jack Manley,(7) I hear, cannot live
a month, which will be a great loss to her father in Ireland, for I
believe he is one of his chief supports. Our peace now will soon
be determ