t with the two young lords to Lord Treasurer,
who very fairly turned us all three out of doors. They both were invited
to the Duke of Somerset, but he was gone to a horse-race, and would not
come till five; so we were forced to go to a tavern, and sent for wine
from Lord Treasurer's, who at last, we were told, did not go to town
till the morrow, and at Lord Treasurer's we supped again; and I desired
him to let me add four shillings to the bill I gave him. We sat up till
two, yet I must write to little MD.

18. They are all gone early this morning, and I am alone to seek my
fortune; but Dr. Arbuthnot engages me for my dinners; and he yesterday
gave me my choice of place, person, and victuals for to-day. So I chose
to dine with Mrs. Hill, who is one of the dressers, and Mrs. Masham's
sister, no company but us three, and to have a shoulder of mutton, a
small one; which was exactly, only there was too much victuals besides;
and the Doctor's wife(8) was of the company. And to-morrow Mrs. Hill and
I are to dine with the Doctor. I have seen a fellow often about Court
whom I thought I knew. I asked who he was, and they told me it was the
gentleman porter; then I called him to mind; he was Killy's acquaintance
(I won't say yours); I think his name is Lovet,(9) or Lovel, or
something like it. I believe he does not know me, and in my present
posture I shall not be fond of renewing old acquaintance; I believe I
used to see him with the Bradleys; and, by the way, I have not seen Mrs.
Bradley since I came to England. I left your letter in London, like
a fool; and cannot answer it till I go back, which will not be until
Monday next; so this will be above a fortnight from my last; but I will
fetch it up in my next; so go and walk to the Dean's for your health
this fine weather.

19. The Queen designs to have cards and dancing here next week, which
makes us think she will stay here longer than we believed. Mrs. Masham
is not well after her lying-in: I doubt she got some cold; she is lame
in one of her legs with a rheumatic pain. Dr. Arbuthnot and Mrs. Hill go
tomorrow to Kensington to see her, and return the same night. Mrs. Hill
and I dined with the Doctor to-day. I rode out this morning with the
Doctor to see Cranburn, a house of Lord Ranelagh's,(10) and the Duchess
of Marlborough's lodge, and the Park; the finest places they are, for
nature and plantations, that ever I saw; and the finest riding upon
artificial roads, made on purpose for the Queen. Arbuthnot made me draw
up a sham subscription for a book, called A History of the Maids of
Honour since Harry the Eighth, showing they make the best wives, with a
list of all the maids of honour since, etc.; to pay a crown in hand, and
the other crown upon delivery of the book; and all in common forms of
those things. We got a gentleman to write it fair, because my hand is
known; and we sent it to the maids of honour, when they came to supper.
If they bite at it, it will be a very good Court jest; and the Queen
will certainly have it: we did not tell Mrs. Hill.

20. To-day I was invited to the Green Cloth by Colonel Godfrey, who
married the Duke of Marlborough's sister,(11) mother to the Duke of
Berwick by King James: I must tell you those things that happened before
you were born. But I made my excuses, and young Harcourt (Lord Keeper's
son) and I dined with my next neighbour, Dr Adams.(12) Mrs. Masham is
better, and will be here in three or four days. She had need; for the
Duchess of Somerset is thought to gain ground daily.--We have not sent
you over all your bills; and I think we have altered your money-bill.
The Duke of Ormond is censured here, by those in power, for very wrong
management in the affair of the mayoralty.(13) He is governed by fools,
and has usually much more sense than his advisers, but never proceeds
by it. I must know how your health continues after Wexford. Walk and
use exercise, sirrahs both; and get somebody to play at shuttlecock with
you, Madam Stella, and walk to the Dean's and Donnybrook.

21. Colonel Godfrey sent to me again to-day; so I dined at the Green
Cloth, and we had but eleven at dinner, which is a small number there,
the Court being always thin of company till Saturday night.--This new
ink and pen make a strange figure; I MUST WRITE LARGER, YES I MUST, OR
STELLA WILL NOT BE ABLE TO READ THIS.(14) S. S. S., there is your S's
for you, Stella. The maids of honour are bit, and have all contributed
their crowns, and are teasing others to subscribe for the book. I will
tell Lord Keeper and Lord Treasurer to-morrow; and I believe the Queen
will have it. After a little walk this evening, I squandered away the
rest of it in sitting at Lewis's lodging, while he and Dr. Arbuthnot
played at picquet. I have that foolish pleasure, which I believe nobody
has beside me, except old Lady Berkeley.(15) But I fretted when I came
away: I will loiter so no more, for I have a plaguy deal of business
upon my hands, and very little time to do it. The pamphleteers begin to
be very busy against the Ministry: I have begged Mr. Secretary to make
examples of one or two of them, and he