to
half-sheets again; but then what will you do to make up the journal?
there will be ten days of Presto's life lost; and that will be a sad
thing, faith and troth.--At night. I was at a loss today for a dinner,
unless I would have gone a great way, so I dined with some friends
that board hereabout,(45) as a spunger;(46) and this evening Sir Andrew
Fountaine would needs have me go to the tavern; where, for two bottles
of wine, Portugal and Florence, among three of us, we had sixteen
shillings to pay; but if ever he catches me so again, I'll spend as many
pounds: and therefore I have it among my extraordinaries but we had a
neck of mutton dressed a la Maintenon, that the dog could not eat: and
it is now twelve o'clock, and I must go sleep. I hope this letter will
go before I have MD's third. Do you believe me? and yet, faith, I long
for MD's third too and yet I would have it to say, that I writ five for
two. I am not fond at all of St. James's Coffee-house,(47) as I used to
be. I hope it will mend in winter; but now they are all out of town at
elections, or not come from their country houses. Yesterday I was going
with Dr. Garth(48) to dine with Charles Main,(49) near the Tower, who
has an employment there: he is of Ireland; the Bishop of Clogher knows
him well: an honest, good-natured fellow, a thorough hearty laugher,
mightily beloved by the men of wit: his mistress is never above a
cook-maid. And so, good-night, etc.

9. I dined to-day at Sir John Stanley's; my Lady Stanley(50) is one
of my favourites: I have as many here as the Bishop of Killala has in
Ireland. I am thinking what scurvy company I shall be to MD when I come
back: they know everything of me already: I will tell you no more, or
I shall have nothing to say, no story to tell, nor any kind of thing.
I was very uneasy last night with ugly, nasty, filthy wine, that turned
sour on my stomach. I must go to the tavern: oh, but I told you that
before. To-morrow I dine at Harley's, and will finish this letter at my
return; but I can write no more now, because of the Archbishop: faith,
'tis true; for I am going now to write to him an account of what I have
done in the business with Harley:(51) and, faith, young women, I'll tell
you what you must count upon, that I never will write one word on the
third side in these long letters.

10. Poor MD's letter was lying so huddled up among papers, I could not
find it: I mean poor Presto's letter. Well, I dined with Mr. Harley
to-day, and hope some things will be done; but I must say no more: and
this letter must be sent to the post-house, and not by the bellman.(52)
I am to dine again there on Sunday next; I hope to some good issue. And
so now, soon as ever I can in bed, I must begin my 6th to MD as gravely
as if I had not written a word this month: fine doings, faith! Methinks
I don't write as I should, because I am not in bed: see the ugly wide
lines. God Almighty ever bless you, etc.

Faith, this is a whole treatise; I'll go reckon the lines on the other
sides. I've reckoned them.(53)




LETTER 6.

LONDON, Oct. 10, 1710.

So, as I told you just now in the letter I sent half an hour ago, I
dined with Mr. Harley to-day, who presented me to the Attorney-General,
Sir Simon Harcourt, with much compliment on all sides, etc. Harley told
me he had shown my memorial to the Queen, and seconded it very heartily;
and he desires me to dine with him again on Sunday, when he promises
to settle it with Her Majesty, before she names a Governor:(1) and I
protest I am in hopes it will be done, all but the forms, by that time;
for he loves the Church. This is a popular thing, and he would not have
a Governor share in it; and, besides, I am told by all hands, he has a
mind to gain me over. But in the letter I writ last post (yesterday) to
the Archbishop, I did not tell him a syllable of what Mr. Harley said to
me last night, because he charged me to keep it secret; so I would not
tell it to you, but that, before this goes, I hope the secret will be
over. I am now writing my poetical "Description of a Shower in London,"
and will send it to the Tatler.(2) This is the last sheet of a whole
quire I have written since I came to town. Pray, now it comes into my
head, will you, when you go to Mrs. Walls, contrive to know whether
Mrs. Wesley(3) be in town, and still at her brother's, and how she is
in health, and whether she stays in town. I writ to her from Chester,
to know what I should do with her note; and I believe the poor woman is
afraid to write to me: so I must go to my business, etc.

11. To-day at last I dined with Lord Mountrath,(4) and carried Lord
Mountjoy, and Sir Andrew Fountaine with me; and was looking over them
at ombre till eleven this evening like a fool: they played running ombre
half-crowns; and Sir Andrew Fountaine won eight guineas of Mr. Coote;(5)
so I am come home late, and will say but little to MD this night. I have
gotten half a bushel of coals, and Patrick, the extravagant whelp, had
a fire ready for me; but I picked off the coals before I went to bed. It
is a sign London is now an empty place, when it will not furnish me