 her sister
Ashburnham. The jade was in bed in form, and she did so cant, she made
me sick. I meet Tom Leigh every day in the Park, to preserve his
health. He is as ruddy as a rose, and tells me his Bishop of Dromore(10)
recovers very much. That Bishop has been very near dying. This day's
Examiner talks of the play of "What is it like?"(11) and you will think
it to be mine, and be bit; for I have no hand in these papers at all. I
dined with Lord Treasurer, and shall again to-morrow, which is his day
when all the Ministers dine with him. He calls it whipping-day. It is
always on Saturday, and we do indeed usually rally him about his faults
on that day. I was of the original Club, when only poor Lord Rivers,
Lord Keeper, and Lord Bolingbroke came; but now Ormond, Anglesea, Lord
Steward,(12) Dartmouth, and other rabble intrude, and I scold at it; but
now they pretend as good a title as I; and, indeed, many Saturdays I am
not there. The company being too many, I don't love it. Nite MD.

10. At seven this evening, as we sat after dinner at Lord Treasurer's,
a servant said Lord Peterborow was at the door. Lord Treasurer and
Lord Bolingbroke went out to meet him, and brought him in. He was just
returned from abroad, where he has been above a year. Soon as he saw me,
he left the Duke of Ormond and other lords, and ran and kissed me before
he spoke to them; but chid me terribly for not writing to him, which I
never did this last time he was abroad, not knowing where he was; and he
changed places so often, it was impossible a letter should overtake him.
He left England with a bruise, by his coach overturning, that made him
spit blood, and was so ill, we expected every post to hear of his death;
but he outrode it or outdrank it, or something, and is come home lustier
than ever. He is at least sixty, and has more spirits than any young
fellow I know in England. He has got the old Oxford regiment of horse,
and I believe will have a Garter. I love the hang-dog dearly. Nite dee
MD.

11. The Court was crammed to-day to see(13) the French Ambassador; but
he did not come. Did I never tell you that I go to Court on Sundays as
to a coffee-house, to see acquaintance, whom I should otherwise not
see twice a year? The Provost(14) and I dined with Ned Southwell,
by appointment, in order to settle your kingdom, if my scheme can
be followed; but I doubt our Ministry will be too tedious. You must
certainly have a new Parliament; but they would have that a secret yet.
Our Parliament here will be prorogued for three weeks. Those puppies the
Dutch will not yet come in, though they pretend to submit to the Queen
in everything; but they would fain try first how our session begins,
in hopes to embroil us in the House of Lords: and if my advice had been
taken, the session should have begun, and we would have trusted the
Parliament to approve the steps already made toward the peace, and had
an Address perhaps from them to conclude without the Dutch, if they
would not agree.--Others are of my mind, but it is not reckoned so safe,
it seems; yet I doubt whether the peace will be ready so soon as three
weeks, but that is a secret. Nite MD.

12. Pratt and I walked into the City to one Bateman's,(15) a famous
bookseller, for old books. There I laid out four pounds like a fool,
and we dined at a hedge ale-house, for two shillings and twopence,
like emperors. Let me see, I bought Plutarch, two volumes, for thirty
shillings, etc. Well, I'll tell you no more; oo don't understand
Greek.(16) We have no news, and I have nothing more to say to-day, and
I can't finish my work. These Ministers will not find time to do what I
would have them. So nite, nown dee dallars.

13. I was to have dined to-day with Lord Keeper, but would not, because
that brute Sir John Walter(17) was to be one of the company. You may
remember he railed at me last summer was twelvemonth at Windsor, and has
never begged my pardon, though he promised to do it; and Lord Mansel,
who was one of the company, would certainly have set us together by
the ears, out of pure roguish mischief. So I dined with Lord Treasurer,
where there was none but Lord Bolingbroke. I stayed till eight, and then
went to Lady Orkney's, who has been sick, and sat with her till twelve,
from whence you may consider it is late, sollahs. The Parliament was
prorogued to-day, as I told you, for three weeks. Our weather is very
bad and slobbery, and I shall spoil my new hat (I have bought a new
hat), or empty my pockets. Does Hawkshaw pay the interest he owes? Lord
Abercorn plagues me to death. I have now not above six people to provide
for, and about as many to do good offices to; and thrice as many that I
will do nothing for; nor can I if I would. Nite dee MD.

14. To-day I took the circle of morning visits. I went to the Duchess of
Ormond, and there was she, and Lady Betty, and Lord Ashburnham together:
this was the first time the mother and daughter saw each other since
Lady Ashburnham's death. They were both in tears, and I chid them for
being together, and made Lady Betty go to her own chamber; then sat a
while with the Duchess, and 