call up whatever persons I would choose to name, and in whatever
numbers, among all the dead from the beginning of the world to the
present time, and command them to answer any questions I should think fit
to ask; with this condition, that my questions must be confined within
the compass of the times they lived in.  And one thing I might depend
upon, that they would certainly tell me the truth, for lying was a talent
of no use in the lower world.”

I made my humble acknowledgments to his highness for so great a favour.
We were in a chamber, from whence there was a fair prospect into the
park.  And because my first inclination was to be entertained with scenes
of pomp and magnificence, I desired to see Alexander the Great at the
head of his army, just after the battle of Arbela: which, upon a motion
of the governor’s finger, immediately appeared in a large field, under
the window where we stood.  Alexander was called up into the room: it was
with great difficulty that I understood his Greek, and had but little of
my own.  He assured me upon his honour “that he was not poisoned, but
died of a bad fever by excessive drinking.”

Next, I saw Hannibal passing the Alps, who told me “he had not a drop of
vinegar in his camp.”

I saw Cæsar and Pompey at the head of their troops, just ready to engage.
I saw the former, in his last great triumph.  I desired that the senate
of Rome might appear before me, in one large chamber, and an assembly of
somewhat a later age in counterview, in another.  The first seemed to be
an assembly of heroes and demigods; the other, a knot of pedlars,
pick-pockets, highwayman, and bullies.

The governor, at my request, gave the sign for Cæsar and Brutus to
advance towards us.  I was struck with a profound veneration at the sight
of Brutus, and could easily discover the most consummate virtue, the
greatest intrepidity and firmness of mind, the truest love of his
country, and general benevolence for mankind, in every lineament of his
countenance.  I observed, with much pleasure, that these two persons were
in good intelligence with each other; and Cæsar freely confessed to me,
“that the greatest actions of his own life were not equal, by many
degrees, to the glory of taking it away.”  I had the honour to have much
conversation with Brutus; and was told, “that his ancestor Junius,
Socrates, Epaminondas, Cato the younger, Sir Thomas More, and himself
were perpetually together:” a sextumvirate, to which all the ages of the
world cannot add a seventh.

It would be tedious to trouble the reader with relating what vast numbers
of illustrious persons were called up to gratify that insatiable desire I
had to see the world in every period of antiquity placed before me.  I
chiefly fed mine eyes with beholding the destroyers of tyrants and
usurpers, and the restorers of liberty to oppressed and injured nations.
But it is impossible to express the satisfaction I received in my own
mind, after such a manner as to make it a suitable entertainment to the
reader.



CHAPTER VIII.


A further account of Glubbdubdrib.  Ancient and modern history corrected.

Having a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit and
learning, I set apart one day on purpose.  I proposed that Homer and
Aristotle might appear at the head of all their commentators; but these
were so numerous, that some hundreds were forced to attend in the court,
and outward rooms of the palace.  I knew, and could distinguish those two
heroes, at first sight, not only from the crowd, but from each other.
Homer was the taller and comelier person of the two, walked very erect
for one of his age, and his eyes were the most quick and piercing I ever
beheld.  Aristotle stooped much, and made use of a staff.  His visage was
meagre, his hair lank and thin, and his voice hollow.  I soon discovered
that both of them were perfect strangers to the rest of the company, and
had never seen or heard of them before; and I had a whisper from a ghost
who shall be nameless, “that these commentators always kept in the most
distant quarters from their principals, in the lower world, through a
consciousness of shame and guilt, because they had so horribly
misrepresented the meaning of those authors to posterity.”  I introduced
Didymus and Eustathius to Homer, and prevailed on him to treat them
better than perhaps they deserved, for he soon found they wanted a genius
to enter into the spirit of a poet.  But Aristotle was out of all
patience with the account I gave him of Scotus and Ramus, as I presented
them to him; and he asked them, “whether the rest of the tribe were as
great dunces as themselves?”

I then desired the governor to call up Descartes and Gassendi, with whom
I prevailed to explain their systems to Aristotle.  This great
philosopher freely acknowledged his own mistakes in natural philosophy,
because he proceeded in many things upon conjecture, as all men must do;
and he found that Gassendi, who had made the doctrine of Epicurus as
palatable as he could, and the vortices of Descartes, were equally to be
exploded.  He predicted the same fate to _attraction_, w