see Lord
Treasurer, and met him coming from his house in his coach: he smiled,
and I shrugged, and we smoked each other; and so my visit is paid. I
now confine myself to see him only twice a week: he has invited me to
Windsor, and betwixt two stools, etc. I will go live at Windsor, if
possible, that's pozzz. I have always the luck to pass my summer
in London. I called this evening to see poor Sir Matthew Dudley, a
Commissioner of the Customs; I know he is to be out for certain: he is
in hopes of continuing: I would not tell him bad news, but advised him
to prepare for the worst. Dilly was with me this morning, to invite me
to dine at Kensington on Sunday with Lord Mountjoy, who goes soon for
Ireland. Your late Chief-Justice Broderick(14) is here, and they say
violent as a tiger. How is party among you at Wexford? Are the majority
of ladies for the late or present Ministry? Write me Wexford news, and
love Presto, because he is a good boy.

14. Although it was shaving-day, I walked to Chelsea, and was there by
nine this morning; and the Dean of Carlisle and I crossed the water to
Battersea, and went in his chariot to Greenwich, where we dined at
Dr. Gastrell's, and passed the afternoon at Lewisham, at the Dean
of Canterbury's;(15) and there I saw Moll Stanhope,(16) who is grown
monstrously tall, but not so handsome as formerly. It is the first
little rambling journey I have had this summer about London, and they
are the agreeablest pastimes one can have, in a friend's coach, and
to good company. Bank Stock is fallen three or four per cent. by the
whispers about the town of the Queen's being ill, who is however very
well.

15. How many books have you carried with you to Wexford? What, not one
single book? Oh, but your time will be so taken up; and you can borrow
of the parson. I dined to-day with Sir Andrew Fountaine and Dilly at
Kensington with Lord Mountjoy; and in the afternoon Stratford came
there, and told me my two hundred pounds were paid at last; so that
business is over, and I am at ease about it; and I wish all your money
was in the Bank too. I will have my other hundred pounds there, that is
in Hawkshaw's hands. Have you had the interest of it paid yet? I ordered
Parvisol to do it. What makes Presto write so crooked? I will answer
your letter to-morrow, and send it on Tuesday. Here's hot weather come
again, yesterday and to-day: fine drinking waters now. We had a sad pert
dull parson at Kensington to-day. I almost repent my coming to town; I
want the walks I had.

16. I dined in the City to-day with a hedge(17) acquaintance, and the
day passed without any consequence. I will answer your letter to-morrow.

17. Morning. I have put your letter before me, and am going to answer
it. Hold your tongue: stand by. Your weather and ours were not alike; we
had not a bit of hot weather in June, yet you complain of it on the 19th
day. What, you used to love hot weather then? I could never endure it:
I detest and abominate it. I would not live in a hot country, to be king
of it. What a splutter you keep about my bonds with Raymond, and all to
affront Presto! Presto will be suspicious of everything but MD, in spite
of your little nose. Soft and fair, Madam Stella, how you gallop away,
in your spleen and your rage, about repenting my journey, and preferment
here, and sixpence a dozen, and nasty England, and Laracor all my life.
Hey-dazy, will you never have done? I had no offers of any living. Lord
Keeper told me some months ago he would give me one when I pleased;
but I told him I would not take any from him; and the Secretary told me
t'other day he had refused a very good one for me, but it was in a place
he did not like; and I know nothing of getting anything here, and, if
they would give me leave, I would come over just now. Addison, I hear,
has changed his mind about going over; but I have not seen him these
four months.--Oh ay, that's true, Dingley; that's like herself: millions
of businesses to do before she goes. Yes, my head has been pretty well,
but threatening within these two or three days, which I impute to some
fruit I ate; but I will eat no more: not a bit of any sort. I suppose
you had a journey without dust, and that was happy. I long for a Wexford
letter, but must not think of it yet: your last was finished but three
weeks ago. It is d----d news you tell me of Mrs. F----; it makes me love
England less a great deal. I know nothing of the trunk being left or
taken; so 'tis odd enough, if the things in it were mine; and I think
I was told that there are some things for me that my mother left
particularly to me. I am really sorry for -----; that scoundrel -----
will have his estate after his mother's death. Let me know if Mrs. Walls
has got her tea: I hope Richardson(18) stayed in Dublin till it came.
Mrs. Walls needed not have that blemish in her eye; for I am not in love
with her at all. No, I do not like anything in the Examiner after the
45th, except the first part of the 46th;(19) all the rest is trash; and
if you like them, especially the 47th, your judgment is spoiled by ill
company and want of reading, which I 