 is no
danger. I asked him, Was there any more to be settled between us in my
affair? He said, No; and answered my questions just as Tooke had got
them from others; so I hope I am safe. This has been a scurvy affair. I
believe Stella would have half laughed at me, to see a suspicious fellow
like me overreached. I saw Prince Eugene to-day at Court: I don't think
him an ugly-faced fellow, but well enough, and a good shape.

14. The Parliament was to sit to-day, and met; but were adjourned by
the Queen's directions till Thursday. She designs to make some important
speech then. She pretended illness; but I believe they were not ready,
and they expect some opposition: and the Scotch lords are angry,(2) and
must be pacified. I was this morning to invite the Duke of Ormond to our
Society on Thursday, where he is then to be introduced. He has appointed
me at twelve to-morrow about some business: I would fain have his help
to impeach a certain lord; but I doubt we shall make nothing of it. I
intended to have dined with Lord Treasurer, but I was told he would be
busy: so I dined with Mrs. Van; and at night I sat with Lord Masham till
one. Lord Treasurer was there, and chid me for not dining with him: he
was in very good humour. I brought home two flasks of burgundy in my
chair: I wish MD had them. You see it is very late; so I'll go to bed,
and bid MD good night.

15. This morning I presented my printer and bookseller to Lord Rivers,
to be stationers to the Ordnance; stationers, that's the word; I did not
write it plain at first. I believe it will be worth three hundred pounds
a year between them. This is the third employment I have got for them.
Rivers told them the Doctor commanded him, and he durst not refuse it. I
would have dined with Lord Treasurer to-day again, but Lord Mansel would
not let me, and forced me home with him. I was very deep with the Duke
of Ormond to-day at the Cockpit, where we met to be private; but I doubt
I cannot do the mischief I intended. My friend Penn came there, Will
Penn the Quaker, at the head of his brethren, to thank the Duke for
his kindness to their people in Ireland. To see a dozen scoundrels with
their hats on, and the Duke complimenting with his off, was a good sight
enough. I sat this evening with Sir William Robinson,(3) who has mighty
often invited me to a bottle of wine: and it is past twelve.

16. This being fast-day, Dr. Freind and I went into the City to dine
late, like good fasters. My printer and bookseller want me to hook in
another employment for them in the Tower, because it was enjoyed before
by a stationer, although it be to serve the Ordnance with oil, tallow,
etc., and is worth four hundred pounds per annum more: I will try what
I can do. They are resolved to ask several other employments of the
same nature to other offices; and I will then grease fat sows, and see
whether it be possible to satisfy them. Why am not I a stationer? The
Parliament sits to-morrow, and Walpole, late Secretary at War, is to be
swinged for bribery, and the Queen is to communicate something of great
importance to the two Houses, at least they say so. But I must think of
answering your letter in a day or two.

17. I went this morning to the Duke of Ormond about some business, and
he told me he could not dine with us today, being to dine with Prince
Eugene. Those of our Society of the House of Commons could not be with
us, the House sitting late on Walpole. I left them at nine, and they
were not come. We kept some dinner for them. I hope Walpole will be sent
to the Tower, and expelled the House; but this afternoon the members I
spoke with in the Court of Requests talked dubiously of it. It will be
a leading card to maul the Duke of Marlborough for the same crime, or at
least to censure him. The Queen's message was only to give them notice
of the peace she is treating, and to desire they will make some law to
prevent libels against the Government; so farewell to Grub Street.

18. I heard to-day that the commoners of our Society did not leave the
Parliament till eleven at night, then went to those I left, and stayed
till three in the morning. Walpole is expelled, and sent to the Tower.
I was this morning again with Lord Rivers, and have made him give the
other employment to my printer and bookseller; 'tis worth a great deal.
I dined with my friend Lewis privately, to talk over affairs. We want to
have this Duke of Somerset out, and he apprehends it will not be, but I
hope better. They are going now at last to change the Commissioners of
the Customs; my friend Sir Matthew Dudley will be out, and three more,
and Prior will be in. I have made Ford copy out a small pamphlet, and
sent it to the press, that I might not be known for author; 'tis
A Letter to the October Club,(4) if ever you heard of such a
thing.--Methinks this letter goes on but slowly for almost a week: I
want some little conversation with MD, and to know what they are doing
just now. I am sick of politics. I have not dined with Lord Treasurer
these three weeks: he chides me, but I don't care: I don't.

19. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer: thi