, or he had been here, and we might have been
tacking up by this time. Sir, says I, pray be advis'd by a friend, and
make the best of your speed out of my doors, for I hear my wife's voice,
(which by the by, is pretty distinguishable) and in that corner of the
room stands a good cudgel, which somebody has felt e're now; if that
light in her hands, and she know the business you come about, without
consulting the stars, I can assure you it will be employed very much to
the detriment of your person. Sir, cries he, bowing with great civility,
I perceive extreme grief for the loss of the Doctor disorders you a
little at present, but early in the morning I'll wait on you with all
necessary materials. Now I mention no Mr. Bickerstaff, nor do I say,
that a certain star-gazing 'squire has been playing my executor before
his time; but I leave the world to judge, and if he puts things and
things fairly together, it won't be much wide of the mark.

Well, once more I got my doors clos'd, and prepar'd for bed, in hopes of
a little repose after so many ruffling adventures; just as I was putting
out my light in order to it, another bounces as hard as he can knock;
I open the window, and ask who's there, and what he wants? I am Ned the
sexton, replies he, and come to know whether the Doctor left any orders
for a funeral sermon, and where he is to be laid, and whether his grave
is to be plain or bricked? Why, sirrah, says I, you know me well enough;
you know I am not dead, and how dare you affront me in this manner?
Alack-a-day, replies the fellow, why 'tis in print, and the whole town
knows you are dead; why, there's Mr. White the joiner is but fitting
screws to your coffin, he'll be here with it in an instant: he was
afraid you would have wanted it before this time. Sirrah, Sirrah, says
I, you shall know tomorrow to your cost, that I am alive, and alive like
to be. Why, 'tis strange, sir, says he, you should make such a secret
of your death to us that are your neighbours; it looks as if you had a
design to defraud the church of its dues; and let me tell you, for one
that has lived so long by the heavens, that's unhandsomely done. Hist,
Hist, says another rogue that stood by him, away Doctor, in your flannel
gear as fast as you can, for here's a whole pack of dismals coming to
you with their black equipage, and how indecent will it look for you
to stand fright'ning folks at your window, when you should have been
in your coffin this three hours? In short, what with undertakers,
imbalmers, joiners, sextons, and your damn'd elegy hawkers, upon a late
practitioner in physick and astrology, I got not one wink of sleep that
night, nor scarce a moment's rest ever since. Now I doubt not but this
villainous 'squire has the impudence to assert, that these are entirely
strangers to him; he, good man, knows nothing of the matter, and honest
Isaac Bickerstaff, I warrant you, is more a man of honour, than to be an
accomplice with a pack of rascals, that walk the streets on nights, and
disturb good people in their beds; but he is out, if he thinks the whole
world is blind; for there is one John Partridge can smell a knave as
far as Grubstreet,--tho' he lies in the most exalted garret, and writes
himself 'Squire:--

But I'll keep my temper, and proceed in the narration.

I could not stir out of doors for the space of three months after this,
but presently one comes up to me in the street; Mr Partridge, that
coffin you was last buried in I have not been yet paid for: Doctor,
cries another dog, How d'ye think people can live by making of graves
for nothing? Next time you die, you may e'en toll out the bell yourself
for Ned. A third rogue tips me by the elbow, and wonders how I have the
conscience to sneak abroad without paying my funeral expences. Lord,
says one, I durst have swore that was honest Dr. Partridge, my old
friend; but poor man, he is gone. I beg your pardon, says another, you
look so like my old acquaintance that I used to consult on some private
occasions; but, alack, he's gone the way of all flesh---- Look, look,
look, cries a third, after a competent space of staring at me, would not
one think our neighbour the almanack-maker, was crept out of his grave
to take t'other peep at the stars in this world, and shew how much he is
improv'd in fortune-telling by having taken a journey to the other?

Nay, the very reader, of our parish, a good sober, discreet person, has
sent two or three times for me to come and be buried decently, or send
him sufficient reasons to the contrary, if I have been interr'd in any
other parish, to produce my certificate, as the act requires. My poor
wife is almost run distracted with being called Widow Partridge, when
she knows its false; and once a term she is cited into the court, to
take out letters of administration. But the greatest grievance is, a
paultry quack, that takes up my calling just under my nose, and in his
printed directions with N.B. says, He lives in the house of the late
ingenious Mr. John Partridge, an eminent practitioner in leather,
physick and astrology.

But to show how far the wicked spirit of en