ave concluded that Swift was resolved to keep
Stella in his power, and therefore prevented an advantageous match
by making unreasonable demands. I cannot see any ground for this
interpretation, though it is probable that Tisdall's appearance as
a suitor was sufficiently annoying. There is no evidence that Stella
viewed Tisdall's proposal with any favour, unless it can be held to
be furnished by Swift's belief that the town thought--rightly or
wrongly--that there was an engagement. In any case, there could be no
mistake in future with regard to Swift's attitude towards Stella. She
was dearer to him than anyone else, and his feeling for her would not
change, but for marriage he had neither fortune nor humour. Tisdall
consoled himself by marrying another lady two years afterwards; and
though for a long time Swift entertained for him feelings of dislike,
in later life their relations improved, and Tisdall was one of the
witnesses to Swift's will.

The Tale of a Tub was published in 1704, and Swift was soon in constant
intercourse with Addison and the other wits. While he was in England in
1705, Stella and Mrs. Dingley made a short visit to London. This and a
similar visit in 1708 are the only occasions on which Stella is known to
have left Ireland after taking up her residence in that country. Swift's
influence over women was always very striking. Most of the toasts of the
day were his friends, and he insisted that any lady of wit and quality
who desired his acquaintance should make the first advances. This, he
says--writing in 1730--had been an established rule for over twenty
years. In 1708 a dispute on this question with one toast, Mrs. Long,
was referred for settlement to Ginckel Vanhomrigh, the son of the house
where it was proposed that the meeting should take place; and by the
decision--which was in Swift's favour--"Mrs. Vanhomrigh and her fair
daughter Hessy" were forbidden to aid Mrs. Long in her disobedience
for the future. This is the first that we hear of Hester or Esther
Vanhomrigh, who was afterwards to play so marked a part in the story
of Swift's life. Born on February 14, 1690, she was now eighteen. Her
father, Bartholomew Vanhomrigh, a Dublin merchant of Dutch origin,
had died in 1703, leaving his wife a fortune of some sixteen thousand
pounds. On the income from this money Mrs. Vanhomrigh, with her two
daughters, Hester and Mary, were able to mix in fashionable society in
London. Swift was introduced to them by Sir Andrew Fountaine early in
1708, but evidently Stella did not make their acquaintance, nor indeed
hear much, if anything, of them until the time of the Journal.

Swift's visit to London in 1707-9 had for its object the obtaining for
the Irish Church of the surrender by the Crown of the First-Fruits and
Twentieths, which brought in about 2500 pounds a year. Nothing came
of Swift's interviews with the Whig statesmen, and after many
disappointments he returned to Laracor (June 1709), and conversed with
none but Stella and her card-playing friends, and Addison, now secretary
to Lord Wharton.(4) Next year came the fall of the Whigs, and a request
to Swift from the Irish bishops that he would renew the application for
the First-Fruits, in the hope that there would be greater success with
the Tories. Swift reached London in September 1710, and began the series
of letters, giving details of the events of each day, which now form the
Journal to Stella. "I will write something every day to MD," he says,
"and make it a sort of journal; and when it is full I will send it,
whether MD writes or no; and so that will be pretty; and I shall always
be in conversation with MD, and MD with Presto." It is interesting to
note that by way of caution these letters were usually addressed to Mrs.
Dingley, and not to Stella.

The story of Swift's growing intimacy with the Tory leaders, of the
success of his mission, of the increasing coolness towards older
acquaintances, and of his services to the Government, can best be read
in the Journal itself. In the meantime the intimacy with the Vanhomrighs
grew rapidly. They were near neighbours of Swift's, and in a few weeks
after his arrival in town we find frequent allusions to the dinners at
their house (where he kept his best gown and periwig), sometimes with
the explanation that he went there "out of mere listlessness," or
because it was wet, or because another engagement had broken down. Only
thrice does he mention the "eldest daughter": once on her birthday; once
on the occasion of a trick played him, when he received a message that
she was suddenly very ill ("I rattled off the daughter"); and once to
state that she was come of age, and was going to Ireland to look after
her fortune. There is evidence that "Miss Essy," or Vanessa, to give her
the name by which she will always be known, was in correspondence with
Swift in July 1710--while he was still in Ireland--and in the spring of
1711;(5) and early in 1711 Stella seems to have expressed surprise at
Swift's intimacy with the family, for in February he replied, "You say
they are of no consequence; why, they keep as good female