as this morning with Mr. Secretary St. John, and we were to dine
at Mr. Harley's alone, about some business of importance; but there were
two or three gentlemen there. Mr. Secretary and I went together from
his office to Mr. Harley's, and thought to have been very wise; but the
deuce a bit, the company stayed, and more came, and Harley went away at
seven, and the Secretary and I stayed with the rest of the company till
eleven; I would then have had him come away; but he was in for't; and
though he swore he would come away at that flask, there I left him. I
wonder at the civility of these people; when he saw I would drink no
more, he would always pass the bottle by me, and yet I could not keep
the toad from drinking himself, nor he would not let me go neither, nor
Masham,(6) who was with us. When I got home, I found a parcel directed
to me; and opening it, I found a pamphlet written entirely against
myself, not by name, but against something I writ:(7) it is pretty
civil, and affects to be so, and I think I will take no notice of it;
'tis against something written very lately; and indeed I know not what
to say, nor do I care. And so you are a saucy rogue for losing your
money to-day at Stoyte's; to let that bungler beat you, fie, Stella,
an't you ashamed? Well, I forgive you this once, never do so again; no,
noooo. Kiss and be friends, sirrah.--Come, let me go sleep, I go earlier
to bed than formerly; and have not been out so late these two
months; but the Secretary was in a drinking humour. So good-night,
myownlittledearsaucyinsolentrogues.

19. Then you read that long word in the last line; no,(8) faith, han't
you. Well, when will this letter come from our MD? to-morrow or next day
without fail; yes, faith, and so it is coming. This was an insipid snowy
day, no walking day, and I dined gravely with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and
came home, and am now got to bed a little after ten; I remember old
Culpepper's maxim:

     "Would you have a settled head,
      You must early go to bed:
      I tell you, and I tell't again,
      You must be in bed at ten."

20. And so I went to-day with my new wig, o hoao, to visit Lady
Worsley,(9) whom I had not seen before, although she was near a month in
town. Then I walked in the Park to find Mr. Ford, whom I had promised to
meet; and coming down the Mall, who should come towards me but Patrick,
and gives me five letters out of his pocket. I read the superscription
of the first, "Pshoh," said I; of the second, "Pshoh" again; of the
third, "Pshah, pshah, pshah"; of the fourth, "A gad, a gad, a gad, I'm
in a rage"; of the fifth and last, "O hoooa; ay marry this is something,
this is our MD"; so truly we opened it, I think immediately, and it
began the most impudently in the world, thus: "Dear Presto, We are even
thus far." "Now we are even," quoth Stephen, when he gave his wife
six blows for one. I received your ninth four days after I had sent my
thirteenth. But I'll reckon with you anon about that, young women. Why
did not you recant at the end of your letter, when you got my eleventh,
tell me that, huzzies base? were we even then, were we, sirrah? But I
won't answer your letter now, I'll keep it for another time. We had a
great deal of snow to-day, and 'tis terrible cold. I dined with Ford,
because it was his Opera-day and snowed, so I did not care to stir
farther. I will send tomorrow to Smyth.

21. Morning. It has snowed terribly all night, and is vengeance cold. I
am not yet up, but cannot write long; my hands will freeze. "Is there a
good fire, Patrick?" "Yes, sir." "Then I will rise; come, take away the
candle." You must know I write on the dark side of my bed-chamber, and
am forced to have a candle till I rise, for the bed stands between me
and the window, and I keep the curtains shut this cold weather. So pray
let me rise; and Patrick, here, take away the candle.--At night. We are
now here in high frost and snow, the largest fire can hardly keep us
warm. It is very ugly walking; a baker's boy broke his thigh yesterday.
I walk slow, make short steps, and never tread on my heel. 'Tis a good
proverb the Devonshire people have:

     "Walk fast in snow,
      In frost walk slow;
      And still as you go,
      Tread on your toe.
   When frost and snow are both together,
   Sit by the fire, and spare shoe-leather."

I dined to-day with Dr. Cockburn,(10) but will not do so again in haste,
he has generally such a parcel of Scots with him.

22. Morning. Starving, starving, uth, uth, uth, uth, uth.--Don't you
remember I used to come into your chamber, and turn Stella out of her
chair, and rake up the fire in a cold morning, and cry Uth, uth, uth?
etc. O, faith, I must rise, my hand is so cold I can write no more. So
good-morrow, sirrahs.--At night. I went this morning to Lady Giffard's
house, and saw your mother, and made her give me a pint bottle of
palsy-water,(11) which I brought home in my pocket; and sealed and tied
up in a paper, and sent it to Mr. Smyth, who goes to-morrow for Ireland,
and sent a letter to him to desire his care of it, and that he would
inquire at Chester about the box. He w