I now think of all his kindness to
me.--The poor creature now lies stabbed in his bed by a desperate French
Popish villain. Good-night, and God preserve you both, and pity me; I
want it.

9. Morning; seven, in bed. Patrick is just come from Mr. Harley's. He
slept well till four; the surgeon sat(23) up with him: he is asleep
again: he felt a pain in his wound when he waked: they apprehend him in
no danger. This account the surgeon left with the porter, to tell
people that send. Pray God preserve him. I am rising, and going to Mr.
Secretary St. John. They say Guiscard will die with the wounds Mr. St.
John and the rest gave him. I shall tell you more at night.--Night.
Mr. Harley still continues on the mending hand; but he rested ill last
night, and felt pain. I was early with the Secretary this morning, and I
dined with him, and he told me several particularities of this accident,
too long to relate now. Mr. Harley is still mending this evening, but
not at all out of danger; and till then I can have no peace. Good-night,
etc., and pity Presto.

10. Mr. Harley was restless last night; but he has no fever, and the
hopes of his mending increase. I had a letter from Mr. Walls, and one
from Mr. Bernage. I will answer them here, not having time to write. Mr.
Walls writes about three things. First, about a hundred pounds from
Dr. Raymond, of which I hear nothing, and it is now too late. Secondly,
about Mr. Clements:(24) I can do nothing in it, because I am not to
mention Mr. Pratt; and I cannot recommend without knowing Mr. Pratt's
objections, whose relation Clements is, and who brought him into the
place. The third is about my being godfather to the child:(25) that
is in my power, and (since there is no remedy) will submit. I wish you
could hinder it; but if it can't be helped, pay what you think proper,
and get the Provost to stand for me, and let his Christian name be
Harley, in honour of my friend, now lying stabbed and doubtful of his
life. As for Bernage, he writes me word that his colonel has offered to
make him captain-lieutenant for a hundred pounds. He was such a fool to
offer him money without writing to me till it was done, though I have
had a dozen letters from him; and then he desires I would say nothing of
this, for fear his colonel should be angry. People are mad. What can
I do? I engaged Colonel Disney, who was one of his solicitors to the
Secretary, and then told him the story. He assured me that Fielding
(Bernage's colonel) said he might have got that sum; but, on account of
those great recommendations he had, would give it him for nothing: and I
would have Bernage write him a letter of thanks, as of a thing given him
for nothing, upon recommendations, etc. Disney tells me he will again
speak to Fielding, and clear up this matter; then I will write to
Bernage. A pox on him for promising money till I had it promised to me;
and then making it such a ticklish point, that one cannot expostulate
with the colonel upon it: but let him do as I say, and there is an
end. I engaged the Secretary of State in it; and am sure it was meant a
kindness to me, and that no money should be given, and a hundred pounds
is too much in a Smithfield bargain,(26) as a major-general told me,
whose opinion I asked. I am now hurried, and can say no more. Farewell,
etc. etc.

How shall I superscribe to your new lodgings, pray, madams? Tell me but
that, impudence and saucy-face.

Are not you sauceboxes to write "lele"(27) like Presto? O poor Presto!

Mr. Harley is better to-night, that makes me so pert, you saucy Gog and
Magog.




LETTER 18.

LONDON, March 10, 1710-11.

Pretty little MD must expect little from me till Mr. Harley is out of
danger. We hope he is so now; but I am subject to fear for my friends.
He has a head full of the whole business of the nation, was out of order
when the villain stabbed him, and had a cruel contusion by the second
blow. But all goes on well yet. Mr. Ford and I dined with Mr. Lewis, and
we hope the best.

11. This morning Mr. Secretary and I met at Court, where he went to
the Queen, who is out of order, and aguish: I doubt the worse for this
accident to Mr. Harley. We went together to his house, and his wound
looks well, and he is not feverish at all, and I think it is foolish in
me to be so much in pain as I am. I had the penknife in my hand, which
is broken within a quarter of an inch of the handle. I have a mind to
write and publish an account of all the particularities of this fact:(1)
it will be very curious, and I would do it when Mr. Harley is past
danger.

12. We have been in terrible pain to-day about Mr. Harley, who never
slept last night, and has been very feverish. But this evening I called
there; and young Mr. Harley (his only son) tells me he is now much
better, and was then asleep. They let nobody see him, and that is
perfectly right. The Parliament cannot go on till he is well, and are
forced to adjourn their money businesses, which none but he can help
them in. Pray God preserve him.

13. Mr. Harley is better to-day, slept well all night, and we are a
little out of our fears. I send and call thr