The Project Gutenberg eBook, Gulliver's Travels, by Jonathan Swift


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: Gulliver's Travels
       into several remote nations of the world


Author: Jonathan Swift



Release Date: June 15, 2009  [eBook #829]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GULLIVER'S TRAVELS***


Transcribed from the 1892 George Bell and Sons edition by David Price,
email ccx074@pglaf.org





                            GULLIVER’S TRAVELS
                               INTO SEVERAL
                       REMOTE NATIONS OF THE WORLD


                         BY JONATHAN SWIFT, D.D.,
                      DEAN OF ST. PATRICK’S, DUBLIN.

                      [_First published in_ 1726–7.]




THE PUBLISHER TO THE READER.


                  [_As given in the original edition_.]

The author of these Travels, Mr. Lemuel Gulliver, is my ancient and
intimate friend; there is likewise some relation between us on the
mother’s side.  About three years ago, Mr. Gulliver growing weary of the
concourse of curious people coming to him at his house in Redriff, made a
small purchase of land, with a convenient house, near Newark, in
Nottinghamshire, his native country; where he now lives retired, yet in
good esteem among his neighbours.

Although Mr. Gulliver was born in Nottinghamshire, where his father
dwelt, yet I have heard him say his family came from Oxfordshire; to
confirm which, I have observed in the churchyard at Banbury in that
county, several tombs and monuments of the Gullivers.

Before he quitted Redriff, he left the custody of the following papers in
my hands, with the liberty to dispose of them as I should think fit.  I
have carefully perused them three times.  The style is very plain and
simple; and the only fault I find is, that the author, after the manner
of travellers, is a little too circumstantial.  There is an air of truth
apparent through the whole; and indeed the author was so distinguished
for his veracity, that it became a sort of proverb among his neighbours
at Redriff, when any one affirmed a thing, to say, it was as true as if
Mr. Gulliver had spoken it.

By the advice of several worthy persons, to whom, with the author’s
permission, I communicated these papers, I now venture to send them into
the world, hoping they may be, at least for some time, a better
entertainment to our young noblemen, than the common scribbles of
politics and party.

This volume would have been at least twice as large, if I had not made
bold to strike out innumerable passages relating to the winds and tides,
as well as to the variations and bearings in the several voyages,
together with the minute descriptions of the management of the ship in
storms, in the style of sailors; likewise the account of longitudes and
latitudes; wherein I have reason to apprehend, that Mr. Gulliver may be a
little dissatisfied.  But I was resolved to fit the work as much as
possible to the general capacity of readers.  However, if my own
ignorance in sea affairs shall have led me to commit some mistakes, I
alone am answerable for them.  And if any traveller hath a curiosity to
see the whole work at large, as it came from the hands of the author, I
will be ready to gratify him.

As for any further particulars relating to the author, the reader will
receive satisfaction from the first pages of the book.

                                                          RICHARD SYMPSON.




A LETTER FROM CAPTAIN GULLIVER TO HIS COUSIN SYMPSON.


                        WRITTEN IN THE YEAR 1727.

I hope you will be ready to own publicly, whenever you shall be called to
it, that by your great and frequent urgency you prevailed on me to
publish a very loose and uncorrect account of my travels, with directions
to hire some young gentleman of either university to put them in order,
and correct the style, as my cousin Dampier did, by my advice, in his
book called “A Voyage round the world.”  But I do not remember I gave you
power to consent that any thing should be omitted, and much less that any
thing should be inserted; therefore, as to the latter, I do here renounce
every thing of that kind; particularly a paragraph about her majesty
Queen Anne, of most pious and glorious memory; although I did reverence
and esteem her more than any of human species.  But you, or your
interpolator, ought to have considered, that it was not my inclination,
so was it not decent to praise any animal of our composition before my
master _Houyhnhnm_: And besides, the fact was altogether false; for to my
knowledge, being in England during some part of her majesty’s reign, she
did govern by a chief minister; nay even by two successively, the first
whereof was the lord of Godolphin, and the second the lord of Oxford; so
that you have made me say the thing that was not.  Likewise in the
account of the academy of pro