the _perfection of nature_.  I told my master, “that I was at
a loss for expression, but would improve as fast as I could; and hoped,
in a short time, I should be able to tell him wonders.”  He was pleased
to direct his own mare, his colt, and foal, and the servants of the
family, to take all opportunities of instructing me; and every day, for
two or three hours, he was at the same pains himself.  Several horses and
mares of quality in the neighbourhood came often to our house, upon the
report spread of “a wonderful _Yahoo_, that could speak like a
_Houyhnhnm_, and seemed, in his words and actions, to discover some
glimmerings of reason.”  These delighted to converse with me: they put
many questions, and received such answers as I was able to return.  By
all these advantages I made so great a progress, that, in five months
from my arrival I understood whatever was spoken, and could express
myself tolerably well.

The _Houyhnhnms_, who came to visit my master out of a design of seeing
and talking with me, could hardly believe me to be a right _Yahoo_,
because my body had a different covering from others of my kind.  They
were astonished to observe me without the usual hair or skin, except on
my head, face, and hands; but I discovered that secret to my master upon
an accident which happened about a fortnight before.

I have already told the reader, that every night, when the family were
gone to bed, it was my custom to strip, and cover myself with my clothes.
It happened, one morning early, that my master sent for me by the sorrel
nag, who was his valet.  When he came I was fast asleep, my clothes
fallen off on one side, and my shirt above my waist.  I awaked at the
noise he made, and observed him to deliver his message in some disorder;
after which he went to my master, and in a great fright gave him a very
confused account of what he had seen.  This I presently discovered, for,
going as soon as I was dressed to pay my attendance upon his honour, he
asked me “the meaning of what his servant had reported, that I was not
the same thing when I slept, as I appeared to be at other times; that his
vale assured him, some part of me was white, some yellow, at least not so
white, and some brown.”

I had hitherto concealed the secret of my dress, in order to distinguish
myself, as much as possible, from that cursed race of _Yahoos_; but now I
found it in vain to do so any longer.  Besides, I considered that my
clothes and shoes would soon wear out, which already were in a declining
condition, and must be supplied by some contrivance from the hides of
_Yahoos_, or other brutes; whereby the whole secret would be known.  I
therefore told my master, “that in the country whence I came, those of my
kind always covered their bodies with the hairs of certain animals
prepared by art, as well for decency as to avoid the inclemencies of air,
both hot and cold; of which, as to my own person, I would give him
immediate conviction, if he pleased to command me: only desiring his
excuse, if I did not expose those parts that nature taught us to
conceal.”  He said, “my discourse was all very strange, but especially
the last part; for he could not understand, why nature should teach us to
conceal what nature had given; that neither himself nor family were
ashamed of any parts of their bodies; but, however, I might do as I
pleased.”  Whereupon I first unbuttoned my coat, and pulled it off.  I
did the same with my waistcoat.  I drew off my shoes, stockings, and
breeches.  I let my shirt down to my waist, and drew up the bottom;
fastening it like a girdle about my middle, to hide my nakedness.

My master observed the whole performance with great signs of curiosity
and admiration.  He took up all my clothes in his pastern, one piece
after another, and examined them diligently; he then stroked my body very
gently, and looked round me several times; after which, he said, it was
plain I must be a perfect _Yahoo_; but that I differed very much from the
rest of my species in the softness, whiteness, and smoothness of my skin;
my want of hair in several parts of my body; the shape and shortness of
my claws behind and before; and my affectation of walking continually on
my two hinder feet.  He desired to see no more; and gave me leave to put
on my clothes again, for I was shuddering with cold.

I expressed my uneasiness at his giving me so often the appellation of
_Yahoo_, an odious animal, for which I had so utter a hatred and
contempt: I begged he would forbear applying that word to me, and make
the same order in his family and among his friends whom he suffered to
see me.  I requested likewise, “that the secret of my having a false
covering to my body, might be known to none but himself, at least as long
as my present clothing should last; for as to what the sorrel nag, his
valet, had observed, his honour might command him to conceal it.”

All this my master very graciously consented to; and thus the secret was
kept till my clothes began to wear out, which I was forced to supply by
several contrivances that shall hereafter be mentioned.  In the meantime,
he desi