
hearing me talk so wildly, thought I was mad: others laughed; for indeed
it never came into my head, that I was now got among people of my own
stature and strength.  The carpenter came, and in a few minutes sawed a
passage about four feet square, then let down a small ladder, upon which
I mounted, and thence was taken into the ship in a very weak condition.

The sailors were all in amazement, and asked me a thousand questions,
which I had no inclination to answer.  I was equally confounded at the
sight of so many pigmies, for such I took them to be, after having so
long accustomed mine eyes to the monstrous objects I had left.  But the
captain, Mr. Thomas Wilcocks, an honest worthy Shropshire man, observing
I was ready to faint, took me into his cabin, gave me a cordial to
comfort me, and made me turn in upon his own bed, advising me to take a
little rest, of which I had great need.  Before I went to sleep, I gave
him to understand that I had some valuable furniture in my box, too good
to be lost: a fine hammock, a handsome field-bed, two chairs, a table,
and a cabinet; that my closet was hung on all sides, or rather quilted,
with silk and cotton; that if he would let one of the crew bring my
closet into his cabin, I would open it there before him, and show him my
goods.  The captain, hearing me utter these absurdities, concluded I was
raving; however (I suppose to pacify me) he promised to give order as I
desired, and going upon deck, sent some of his men down into my closet,
whence (as I afterwards found) they drew up all my goods, and stripped
off the quilting; but the chairs, cabinet, and bedstead, being screwed to
the floor, were much damaged by the ignorance of the seamen, who tore
them up by force.  Then they knocked off some of the boards for the use
of the ship, and when they had got all they had a mind for, let the hull
drop into the sea, which by reason of many breaches made in the bottom
and sides, sunk to rights.  And, indeed, I was glad not to have been a
spectator of the havoc they made, because I am confident it would have
sensibly touched me, by bringing former passages into my mind, which I
would rather have forgot.

I slept some hours, but perpetually disturbed with dreams of the place I
had left, and the dangers I had escaped.  However, upon waking, I found
myself much recovered.  It was now about eight o’clock at night, and the
captain ordered supper immediately, thinking I had already fasted too
long.  He entertained me with great kindness, observing me not to look
wildly, or talk inconsistently: and, when we were left alone, desired I
would give him a relation of my travels, and by what accident I came to
be set adrift, in that monstrous wooden chest.  He said “that about
twelve o’clock at noon, as he was looking through his glass, he spied it
at a distance, and thought it was a sail, which he had a mind to make,
being not much out of his course, in hopes of buying some biscuit, his
own beginning to fall short.  That upon coming nearer, and finding his
error, he sent out his long-boat to discover what it was; that his men
came back in a fright, swearing they had seen a swimming house.  That he
laughed at their folly, and went himself in the boat, ordering his men to
take a strong cable along with them.  That the weather being calm, he
rowed round me several times, observed my windows and wire lattices that
defended them.  That he discovered two staples upon one side, which was
all of boards, without any passage for light.  He then commanded his men
to row up to that side, and fastening a cable to one of the staples,
ordered them to tow my chest, as they called it, toward the ship.  When
it was there, he gave directions to fasten another cable to the ring
fixed in the cover, and to raise up my chest with pulleys, which all the
sailors were not able to do above two or three feet.”  He said, “they saw
my stick and handkerchief thrust out of the hole, and concluded that some
unhappy man must be shut up in the cavity.”  I asked, “whether he or the
crew had seen any prodigious birds in the air, about the time he first
discovered me.”  To which he answered, “that discoursing this matter with
the sailors while I was asleep, one of them said, he had observed three
eagles flying towards the north, but remarked nothing of their being
larger than the usual size:” which I suppose must be imputed to the great
height they were at; and he could not guess the reason of my question.  I
then asked the captain, “how far he reckoned we might be from land?”  He
said, “by the best computation he could make, we were at least a hundred
leagues.”  I assured him, “that he must be mistaken by almost half, for I
had not left the country whence I came above two hours before I dropped
into the sea.”  Whereupon he began again to think that my brain was
disturbed, of which he gave me a hint, and advised me to go to bed in a
cabin he had provided.  I assured him, “I was well refreshed with his
good entertainment and company, and as much in my senses as ever I was in
my life.”  He then grew serious, and desired to ask me freely, “wheth