quire after his health; and
yesterday, about four in the afternoon, word was brought me that he
was past hopes: Upon which, I prevailed with myself to go and see him,
partly out of commiseration, and I confess, partly out of curiosity.
He knew me very well, seem'd surpriz'd at my condescension, and made me
compliments upon it as well as he could, in the condition he was. The
people about him said, he had been for some time delirious; but when
I saw him, he had his understanding as well as ever I knew, and spake
strong and hearty, without any seeming uneasiness or constraint. After
I told him how sorry I was to see him in those melancholy circumstances,
and said some other civilities, suitable to the occasion, I desired
him to tell me freely and ingeniously, whether the predictions Mr.
Bickerstaff had publish'd relating to his death, had not too much
affected and worked on his imagination. He confess'd he had often had
it in his head, but never with much apprehension, till about a fortnight
before; since which time it had the perpetual possession of his mind and
thoughts, and he did verily believe was the true natural cause of his
present distemper: For, said he, I am thoroughly persuaded, and I think
I have very good reasons, that Mr. Bickerstaff spoke altogether by
guess, and knew no more what will happen this year than I did myself.
I told him his discourse surprized me; and I would be glad he were in a
state of health to be able to tell me what reason he had to be convinc'd
of Mr. Bickerstaff's ignorance. He reply'd, I am a poor ignorant fellow,
bred to a mean trade, yet I have sense enough to know that all pretences
of foretelling by astrology are deceits, for this manifest reason,
because the wise and the learned, who can only know whether there be any
truth in this science, do all unanimously agree to laugh at and despise
it; and none but the poor ignorant vulgar give it any credit, and that
only upon the word of such silly wretches as I and my fellows, who can
hardly write or read. I then asked him why he had not calculated his
own nativity, to see whether it agreed with Bickerstaff's prediction? at
which he shook his head, and said, Oh! sir, this is no time for jesting,
but for repenting those fooleries, as I do now from the very bottom of
my heart. By what I can gather from you, said I, the observations and
predictions you printed, with your almanacks, were mere impositions on
the people. He reply'd, if it were otherwise I should have the less
to answer for. We have a common form for all those things, as to
foretelling the weather, we never meddle with that, but leave it to the
printer, who takes it out of any old almanack, as he thinks fit; the
rest was my own invention, to make my almanack sell, having a wife to
maintain, and no other way to get my bread; for mending old shoes is
a poor livelihood; and, (added he, sighing) I wish I may not have done
more mischief by my physick than my astrology; tho' I had some good
receipts from my grandmother, and my own compositions were such as I
thought could at least do no hurt.

I had some other discourse with him, which now I cannot call to mind;
and I fear I have already tired your Lordship. I shall only add one
circumstance, That on his death-bed he declared himself a Nonconformist,
and had a fanatick preacher to be his spiritual guide. After half an
hour's conversation I took my leave, being half stifled by the closeness
of the room. I imagine he could not hold out long, and therefore
withdrew to a little coffee-house hard by, leaving a servant at the
house with orders to come immediately, and tell me, as near as he could,
the minute when Partridge should expire, which was not above two hours
after; when, looking upon my watch, I found it to be above five minutes
after seven; by which it is clear that Mr. Bickerstaff was mistaken
almost four hours in his calculation. In the other circumstances he was
exact enough. But whether he has not been the cause of this poor man's
death, as well as the predictor, may be very reasonably disputed.
However, it must be confess'd the matter is odd enough, whether
we should endeavour to account for it by chance, or the effect of
imagination: For my own part, tho' I believe no man has less faith in
these matters, yet I shall wait with some impatience, and not without
some expectation, the fulfilling of Mr. Bickerstaff's second prediction,
that the Cardinal de Noailles is to die upon the fourth of April, and if
that should be verified as exactly as this of poor Partridge, I must
own I should be wholly surprized, and at a loss, and should infallibly
expect the accomplishment of all the rest.


*****




An Elegy on the supposed Death of Partridge, the Almanack-Maker.

          Well, 'tis as Bickerstaff has guess'd,
          Tho' we all took it for a jest;
          Partridge is dead, nay more, he dy'd
          E're he could prove the good 'Squire ly'd.
          Strange, an Astrologer shou'd die,
          Without one Wonder in the Sky!
          Not one of all his Crony Stars
          To pay their Duty at his Herse?
          No Meteo