 Freind(1) (that writ "Lord Peterborow's Actions in
Spain"). I stayed with them till just now between ten and eleven, and
was forced again to give my eighth to the bellman, which I did with my
own hands, rather than keep it till next post. The Secretary used me
with all the kindness in the world. Prior came in after dinner; and,
upon an occasion, he (the Secretary) said, "The best thing I ever read
is not yours, but Dr. Swift's on Vanbrugh"; which I do not reckon so
very good neither.(2) But Prior was damped, until I stuffed him with two
or three compliments. I am thinking what a veneration we used to have
for Sir William Temple, because he might have been Secretary of State at
fifty; and here is a young fellow, hardly thirty, in that employment.(3)
His father is a man of pleasure,(4) that walks the Mall, and frequents
St. James's Coffee-house, and the chocolate-houses; and the young son is
principal Secretary of State. Is there not something very odd in that?
He told me, among other things, that Mr. Harley complained he could keep
nothing from me, I had the way so much of getting into him. I knew that
was a refinement; and so I told him, and it was so: indeed, it is hard
to see these great men use me like one who was their betters, and the
puppies with you in Ireland hardly regarding me: but there are some
reasons for all this, which I will tell you when we meet. At coming
home, I saw a letter from your mother, in answer to one I sent her two
days ago. It seems she is in town; but cannot come out in a morning,
just as you said; and God knows when I shall be at leisure in an
afternoon: for if I should send her a penny-post letter, and afterwards
not be able to meet her, it would vex me; and, besides, the days are
short, and why she cannot come early in a morning, before she is wanted,
I cannot imagine. I will desire her to let Lady Giffard know that she
hears I am in town; and that she would go to see me, to inquire after
you. I wonder she will confine herself so much to that old beast's
humour. You know I cannot in honour see Lady Giffard, and consequently
not go into her house. This I think is enough for the first time.

12. And how could you write with such thin paper? (I forgot to say this
in my former.) Cannot you get thicker? Why, that's a common caution that
writing-masters give their scholars; you must have heard it a hundred
times. 'Tis this:

     "If paper be thin,
      Ink will slip in;
      But, if it be thick,
      You may write with a stick."(5)

I had a letter to-day from poor Mrs. Long,(6) giving me an account of
her present life, obscure in a remote country town, and how easy she
is under it. Poor creature! 'tis just such an alteration in life, as if
Presto should be banished from MD, and condemned to converse with Mrs.
Raymond. I dined to-day with Ford, Sir Richard Levinge,(7) etc., at a
place where they board, hard by. I was lazy, and not very well, sitting
so long with company yesterday. I have been very busy writing this
evening at home, and had a fire: I am spending my second half-bushel of
coals; and now am in bed, and 'tis late.

13. I dined to-day in the City, and then went to christen Will
Frankland's(8) child; and Lady Falconbridge(9) was one of the
godmothers: this is a daughter of Oliver Cromwell, and extremely like
him by his pictures that I have seen. I stayed till almost eleven, and
am now come home and gone to bed. My business in the City was, to thank
Stratford for a kindness he has done me, which now I will tell you. I
found Bank Stock was fallen thirty-four in the hundred, and was mighty
desirous to buy it; but I was a little too late for the cheapest time,
being hindered by business here; for I was so wise to guess to a day
when it would fall. My project was this: I had three hundred pounds in
Ireland; and so I writ to Mr. Stratford in the City, to desire he would
buy me three hundred pounds in Bank Stock, and that he should keep the
papers, and that I would be bound to pay him for them; and, if it
should rise or fall, I would take my chance, and pay him interest in the
meantime. I showed my letter to one or two people who understand those
things; and they said money was so hard to be got here, that no man
would do it for me. However, Stratford, who is the most generous man
alive, has done it: but it costs one hundred pounds and a half, that is,
ten shillings; so that three hundred pounds cost me three hundred pounds
and thirty shillings. This was done about a week ago, and I can have
five pounds for my bargain already. Before it fell, it was one hundred
and thirty pounds; and we are sure it will be the same again. I told
you I writ to your mother, to desire that Lady Giffard would do the same
with what she owes you; but she tells your mother she has no money.
I would to God all you had in the world was there. Whenever you lend
money, take this rule, to have two people bound, who have both visible
fortunes; for they will hardly die together; and, when one dies, you
fall upon the other, and make him add another security: and if Rathburn
(now I have his name) pays you in your money, let