s. He went last spring to
Flanders, with the Duke of Ormond; from thence to France, and was going
to Italy; but the Ministry sent for him, and he has been come over about
ten days. He is much out of humour with things: he thinks the peace is
kept off too long, and is full of fears and doubts. It is thought he is
designed for Secretary of State, instead of Lord Dartmouth. We have been
acquainted these two years; and I intend, in a day or two, to have an
hour's talk with him on affairs. I saw the Bishop of Clogher at Court;
Miss is recovering. I know not how much she will be marked. The Queen
is slowly mending of her gout, and intends to be brought in a chair to
Parliament when it meets, which will be March 3; for I suppose they
will prorogue no more; yet the peace will not be signed then, and we
apprehend the Tories themselves will many of them be discontented. Nite
dee MD.

23. It was ill weather to-day, and I dined with Sir Andrew Fountaine,
and in the evening played at ombre with him and the Provost, and won
twenty-five shillings; so I have recovered myself pretty well. Dilly has
been dunning me to see Fanny Manley; but I have not yet been able to
do it. Miss Ashe is now quite out of danger; and hope will not be much
marked. I cannot tell how to direct to Griffin; and think he lives in
Bury Street, near St. James's Street, hard by me; but I suppose your
brother may direct to him to the Salt Office, and, as I remember, he
knows his Christian name, because he sent it me in the list of the
Commissioners. Nite dee MD.

24. I walked this morning to Chelsea, to see Dr. Atterbury, Dean
of Christ Church. I had business with him about entering Mr.
Fitzmaurice,(20) my Lord Kerry's son, into his College; and Lady
Kerry(21) is a great favourite of mine. Lord Harley, Lord Dupplin, young
Bromley(22) the Speaker's son, and I, dined with Dr. Stratford(23) and
some other clergymen; but I left them at seven to go to Lady Jersey,
to see Monteleon the Spanish Ambassador play at ombre. Lady Jersey was
abroad, and I chid the servants, and made a rattle; but since I came
home she sent me a message that I was mistaken, and that the meeting is
to be to-morrow. I have a worse memory than when I left you, and every
day forget appointments; but here my memory was by chance too good. But
I'll go to-morrow; for Lady Catherine Hyde and Lady Bolingbroke are to
be there by appointment, and I listed(24) up my periwig, and all, to
make a figure. Well, who can help it? Not I, vow to...!(25) Nite MD.

25. Lord Treasurer met me last night at Lord Masham's, and thanked me
for my company in a jeer, because I had not dined with him in three
days. He chides me if I stay away but two days together. What will this
come to? Nothing. My grandmother used to say, "More of your lining, and
less of your dining." However, I dined with him, and could hardly
leave him at eight, to go to Lady Jersey's, where five or six foreign
Ministers were, and as many ladies. Monteleon played like the English,
and cried "gacco," and knocked his knuckles for trump, and played at
small games like Ppt. Lady Jersey whispered me to stay and sup with the
ladies when the fellows were gone; but they played till eleven, and I
would not stay. I think this letter must go on Saturday; that's certain;
and it is not half full yet. Lady Catherine Hyde had a mighty mind I
should be acquainted with Lady Dalkeith,(26) her sister, the Duke of
Monmouth's eldest son's widow, who was of the company to-night; but I
did not like her; she paints too much. Nite MD.

26. This day our Society met at the Duke of Ormond's, but I had business
that called me another way; so I sent my excuses, and dined privately
with a friend. Besides, Sir Thomas Hanmer whispered me last night at
Lady Jersey's that I must attend Lord Treasurer and Duke of Ormond at
supper at his house to-night; which I did at eleven, and stayed till
one, so oo may be sure 'tis late enough. There was the Duchess of
Grafton, and the Duke her son; nine of us in all. The Duke of Ormond
chid me for not being at the Society to-day, and said sixteen were
there. I said I never knew sixteen people good company in my life; no,
fais, nor eight either. We have no news in this town at all. I wonder
why I don't write you news. I know less of what passes than anybody,
because I go to(27) no coffee-house, nor see any but Ministers, and such
people; and Ministers never talk politics in conversation. The Whigs are
forming great schemes against the meeting of Parliament, which will be
next Tuesday, I still think, without fail; and we hope to hear by then
that the peace is ready to sign. The Queen's gout mends daily. Nite MD.

27. I passed a very insipid day, and dined privately with a friend in
the neighbourhood. Did I tell you that I have a very fine picture of
Lady Orkney,(28) an original, by Sir Godfrey Kneller, three-quarters
length? I have it now at home, with a fine frame. Lord Bolingbroke
and Lady Masham have promised to sit for me; but I despair of Lord
Treasurer; only I hope he will give me a copy, and then I shall have all
the pictures of those I really love her