he reward,(19) and the rogues were sent to gaol. Was it not great
presence of mind? But maybe you heard this already; for there was a
Grub Street of it. Lord Bolingbroke told me I must walk away to-day when
dinner was done, because Lord Treasurer, and he, and another, were
to enter upon business; but I said it was as fit I should know their
business as anybody, for I was to justify (it).(20) So the rest went,
and I stayed, and it was so important, I was like to sleep over it. I
left them at nine, and it is now twelve. Nite, MD.

27. I dined to-day with General Hill, Governor of Dunkirk. Lady Masham
and Mrs. Hill, his two sisters, were of the company, and there have I
been sitting this evening till eleven, looking over others at play;
for I have left off loving play myself; and I think Ppt is now a great
gamester. I have a great cold on me, not quite at its height. I have
them seldom, and therefore ought to be patient. I met Mr. Addison and
Pastoral Philips on the Mall to-day, and took a turn with them; but they
both looked terrible dry and cold. A curse of party! And do you know I
have taken more pains to recommend the Whig wits to the favour and mercy
of the Ministers than any other people. Steele I have kept in his
place. Congreve I have got to be used kindly, and secured. Rowe I have
recommended, and got a promise of a place. Philips I could certainly
have provided for, if he had not run party mad, and made me withdraw my
recommendation; and I set Addison so right at first that he might have
been employed, and have partly secured him the place he has; yet I am
worse used by that faction than any man. Well, go to cards, sollah Ppt,
and dress the wine and olange, sollah MD, and I'll go seep. 'Tis rate.
Nite MD.

28. My cold is so bad that I could not go to church today, nor to Court;
but I was engaged to Lord Orkney's with the Duke of Ormond, at dinner;
and ventured, because I could cough and spit there as I pleased. The
Duke and Lord Arran left us, and I have been sitting ever since with
Lord and Lady Orkney till past eleven: and my cold is worse, and makes
me giddy. I hope it is only my cold. Oh, says Ppt, everybody is giddy
with a cold; I hope it is no more; but I'll go to bed, for the fellow
has bawled "Past twelve." Night, deels.

29. I got out early to-day, and escaped all my duns. I went to see Lord
Bolingbroke about some business, and truly he was gone out too. I dined
in the City upon the broiled leg of a goose and a bit of brawn, with
my printer. Did I tell you that I forbear printing what I have in hand,
till the Court decides something about me? I will contract no more
enemies, at least I will not embitter worse those I have already, till
I have got under shelter; and the Ministers know my resolution, so that
you may be disappointed in seeing this thing as soon as you expected.
I hear Lord Treasurer is out of order. My cold is very bad. Every(body)
has one. Nite two dee logues.

30. I suppose this will be full by Saturday; zen(21) it sall go. Duke
of Ormond, Lord Arran, and I, dined privately to-day at an old servant's
house of his. The Council made us part at six. One Mrs. Ramsay dined
with us; an old lady of about fifty-five, that we are all very fond of.
I called this evening at Lord Treasurer's, and sat with him two hours.
He has been cupped for a cold, and has been very ill. He cannot dine
with Parnell and me at Lord Bolingbroke's to-morrow, but says he will
see Parnell some other time. I hoise(22) up Parnell partly to spite the
envious Irish folks here, particularly Tom Leigh. I saw the Bishop
of Clogher's family to-day; Miss is mighty ill of a cold, coughs
incessantly.(23) Nite MD.

31. To-day Parnell and I dined with Lord Bolingbroke, to correct
Parnell's poem. I made him show all the places he disliked; and when
Parnell has corrected it fully he shall print it. I went this evening to
sit with Lord Treasurer. He is better, and will be out in a day or two.
I sat with him while the young folks went to supper; and then went down,
and there were the young folks merry together, having turned Lady Oxford
up to my lord, and I stayed with them till twelve. There was the young
couple, Lord and Lady Caermarthen, and Lord and Lady Dupplin, and Lord
Harley and I; and the old folks were together above. It looked like what
I have formerly done so often; stealing together from the old folks,
though indeed it was not from poor Lord Treasurer, who is as young a
fellow as any of us: but Lady Oxford is a silly mere old woman.(24) My
cold is still so bad that I have not the least smelling. I am just got
home, and 'tis past twelve; and I'll go to bed, and settle my head,
heavy as lead. Nite MD.

Jan. 1, 1712-13. A sousand melly new eels(25) to deelest richar MD. Pray
God Almighty bless you, and send you ever happy! I forgot to tell you
that yesterday Lord Abercorn was here, teasing me about his French
duchy, and suspecting my partiality to the Hamilton family in such a
whimsical manner that Dr. Pratt, who was by, thought he was mad. He was
no sooner gone but Lord Orkney sent to know whether he might come and
sit with me half