onday too; although it goes against
me to be employed for folks that neither you nor I care a groat for. Is
the eight pounds from Hawkshaw included in the thirty-nine pounds five
shillings and twopence? How do I know by this how my account stands?
Can't you write five or six lines to cast it up? Mine is forty-four
pounds per annum, and eight pounds from Hawkshaw makes fifty-two pounds.
Pray set it right, and let me know; you had best.--And so now I have
answered N.21, and 'tis late, and I will answer N.22 in my next: this
cannot go to-night, but shall on Tuesday: and so go to your play, and
lose your money, with your two eggs a penny; silly jade; you witty? very
pretty.

21. Mrs. Van would have me dine with her again to-day, and so I did,
though Lady Mountjoy has sent two or three times to have me see and dine
with her, and she is a little body I love very well. My head has ached
a little in the evenings these three or four days, but it is not of the
giddy sort, so I do not much value it. I was to see Lord Harley to-day,
but Lord Treasurer took physic; and I could not see him. He has voided
much gravel, and is better, but not well: he talks of going on Tuesday
to see the Queen at Hampton Court; I wish he may be able. I never saw so
fine a summer day as this was: how is it with you, pray? and can't you
remember, naughty packs? I han't seen Lord Pembroke yet. He will be
sorry to miss Dilly: I wonder you say nothing of Dilly's being got
to Ireland; if he be not there soon, I shall have some certain odd
thoughts: guess them if you can.

22. I dined in the City to-day with Dr. Freind, at one of my printers:
I inquired for Leigh, but could not find him: I have forgot what sort of
apron you want. I must rout among your letters, a needle in a bottle of
hay. I gave Sterne directions, but where to find him Lord knows. I have
bespoken the spectacles; got a set of Examiners, and five pamphlets,
which I have either written or contributed to, except the best, which
is the vindication of the Duke of Marlborough, and is entirely of the
author of the Atalantis.(17) I have settled Dingley's affair with Tooke,
who has undertaken it, and understands it. I have bespoken a Miscellany:
what would you have me do more? It cost me a shilling coming home; it
rains terribly, and did so in the morning. Lord Treasurer has had an ill
day, in much pain. He writes and does business in his chamber now he is
ill: the man is bewitched: he desires to see me, and I'll maul him, but
he will not value it a rush. I am half weary of them all. I often burst
out into these thoughts, and will certainly steal away as soon as I
decently can. I have many friends, and many enemies; and the last are
more constant in their nature. I have no shuddering at all to think of
retiring to my old circumstances, if you can be easy; but I will always
live in Ireland as I did the last time; I will not hunt for dinners
there, nor converse with more than a very few.

23. Morning. This goes to-day, and shall be sealed by and by. Lord
Treasurer takes physic again to-day: I believe I shall dine with Lord
Dupplin. Mr. Tooke brought me a letter directed for me at Morphew's the
bookseller. I suppose, by the postage, it came from Ireland. It is a
woman's hand, and seems false spelt on purpose: it is in such sort of
verse as Harris's petition;(18) rallies me for writing merry things,
and not upon divinity; and is like the subject of the Archbishop's last
letter, as I told you. Can you guess whom it came from? It is not ill
written; pray find it out. There is a Latin verse at the end of it all
rightly spelt; yet the English, as I think, affectedly wrong in many
places. My plaguing time is coming. A young fellow brought me a
letter from Judge Coote,(19) with recommendation to be lieutenant of a
man-of-war. He is the son of one Echlin,(20) who was minister of Belfast
before Tisdall, and I have got some other new customers; but I shall
trouble my friends as little as possible. Saucy Stella used to jeer
me for meddling with other folks' affairs; but now I am punished for
it.--Patrick has brought the candle, and I have no more room. Farewell,
etc. etc.

Here is a full and true account of Stella's new spelling:--(21)

Plaguely, Plaguily. Dineing, Dining. Straingers, Strangers. Chais,
Chase. Waist, Wast. Houer, Hour. Immagin, Imagine. A bout, About.
Intellegence, Intelligence. Merrit, Merit. Aboundance, Abundance.
Secreet, Secret. Phamphlets, Pamphlets. Bussiness, Business.

Tell me truly, sirrah, how many of these are mistakes of the pen, and
how many are you to answer for as real ill spelling? There are but
fourteen; I said twenty by guess. You must not be angry, for I will have
you spell right, let the world go how it will. Though, after all,
there is but a mistake of one letter in any of these words. I allow you
henceforth but six false spellings in every letter you send me.




LETTER 33.

LONDON, Oct. 23, 1711.

I dined with Lord Dupplin as I told you I would, and put my
thirty-second into the post-office my own self; and I believe there has
not been one moment since we parted wherein a letter was