d Treasurer, and though the business I
had with him is something against Thursday, when the Parliament is to
meet, and this is Tuesday, yet he put it off till to-morrow. I dare not
tell you what it is, lest this letter should miscarry or be opened; but
I never saw his fellow for delays. The Parliament will now certainly
sit, and everybody's expectations are ready to burst. At a Council
to-night the Lord Chief-Justice Parker, a Whig, spoke against the peace;
so did Lord Chomley,(2) another Whig, who is Treasurer of the Household.
My Lord Keeper(3) was this night made Lord Chancellor. We hope there
will soon be some removes. Nite, dee sollahs; Late. Rove Pdfr.(4)

8. Lord Chomley (the right name is Cholmondeley) is this day removed
from his employment, for his last night's speech; and Sir Richard
Temple,(5) Lieutenant-General, the greatest Whig in the army, is turned
out; and Lieutenant-General Palmes(6) will be obliged to sell his
regiment. This is the first-fruits of a friendship I have established
between two great men. I dined with Lord Treasurer, and did the business
I had for him to his satisfaction. I won't tell MD what it was.... (7)
for zat. The Parliament sits to-morrow for certain. Here is a letter
printed in Maccartney's name, vindicating himself from the murder of the
Duke of Hamilton. I must give some hints to have it answered; 'tis full
of lies, and will give an opportunity of exposing that party. To morrow
will be a very important day. All the world will be at Westminster. Lord
Treasurer is as easy as a lamb. They are mustering up the proxies of the
absent lords; but they are not in any fear of wanting a majority, which
death and accidents have increased this year. Nite MD.

9. I was this morning with Lord Treasurer, to present to him a young
son(8) of the late Earl of Jersey, at the desire of the widow. There I
saw the mace and great coach ready for Lord Treasurer, who was going to
Parliament. Our Society met to-day; but I expected the Houses would
sit longer than I cared to fast; so I dined with a friend, and never
inquired how matters went till eight this evening, when I went to Lord
Orkney's, where I found Sir Thomas Hanmer. The Queen delivered her
speech very well, but a little weaker in her voice. The crowd was vast.
The order for the Address(9) was moved, and opposed by Lord Nottingham,
Halifax, and Cowper. Lord Treasurer spoke with great spirit and
resolution; Lord Peterborow flirted(10) against the Duke of Marlborough
(who is in Germany, you know), but it was in answer to one of Halifax's
impertinences. The order for an Address passed by a majority of
thirty-three, and the Houses rose before six. This is the account I
heard at Lord Orkney's. The Bishop of Chester,(11) a high Tory, was
against the Court. The Duchess of Marlborough sent for him some months
ago, to justify herself to him in relation to the Queen, and showed
him letters, and told him stories, which the weak man believed, and was
perverted. Nite MD.

10. I dined with a cousin in the City, and poor Pat Rolt was there.
I have got her rogue of a husband leave to come to England from
Port-Mahon. The Whigs are much down; but I reckon they have some
scheme in agitation. This Parliament-time hinders our Court meetings
on Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. I had a great deal of business
to-night, which gave me a temptation to be idle, and I lost a dozen
shillings at ombre, with Dr. Pratt and another. I have been to see
t'other day the Bishop of Clogher and lady, but did not see Miss. It
rains every day, and yet we are all over dust. Lady Masham's eldest boy
is very ill: I doubt he will not live, and she stays at Kensington to
nurse him, which vexes us all. She is so excessively fond, it makes me
mad. She should never leave the Queen, but leave everything, to stick to
what is so much the interest of the public, as well as her own. This I
tell her; but talk to the winds. Nite MD.

11. I dined at Lord Treasurer's, with his Saturday company. We had ten
at table, all lords but myself and the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Argyle went off at six, and was in very indifferent humour as usual.
Duke of Ormond and Lord Bolingbroke were absent. I stayed till near ten.
Lord Treasurer showed us a small picture, enamelled work, and set in
gold, worth about twenty pounds; a picture, I mean, of the Queen,
which she gave to the Duchess of Marlborough, set in diamonds. When the
Duchess was leaving England, she took off all the diamonds, and gave
the picture to one Mrs. Higgins (an old intriguing woman, whom everybody
knows), bidding her make the best of it she could. Lord Treasurer sent
to Mrs. Higgins for this picture, and gave her a hundred pounds for it.
Was ever such an ungrateful beast as that Duchess? or did you ever hear
such a story? I suppose the Whigs will not believe it. Pray, try them.
Takes off the diamonds, and gives away the picture to an insignificant
woman, as a thing of no consequence: and gives it to her to sell, like a
piece of old-fashioned plate. Is she not a detestable slut? Nite deelest
MD.

12. I went to Court to-day, on purpose to present M