ows of trees,
not regularly planted, but naturally growing; there was great plenty of
grass, and several fields of oats.  I walked very circumspectly, for fear
of being surprised, or suddenly shot with an arrow from behind, or on
either side.  I fell into a beaten road, where I saw many tracts of human
feet, and some of cows, but most of horses.  At last I beheld several
animals in a field, and one or two of the same kind sitting in trees.
Their shape was very singular and deformed, which a little discomposed
me, so that I lay down behind a thicket to observe them better.  Some of
them coming forward near the place where I lay, gave me an opportunity of
distinctly marking their form.  Their heads and breasts were covered with
a thick hair, some frizzled, and others lank; they had beards like goats,
and a long ridge of hair down their backs, and the fore parts of their
legs and feet; but the rest of their bodies was bare, so that I might see
their skins, which were of a brown buff colour.  They had no tails, nor
any hair at all on their buttocks, except about the anus, which, I
presume, nature had placed there to defend them as they sat on the
ground, for this posture they used, as well as lying down, and often
stood on their hind feet.  They climbed high trees as nimbly as a
squirrel, for they had strong extended claws before and behind,
terminating in sharp points, and hooked.  They would often spring, and
bound, and leap, with prodigious agility.  The females were not so large
as the males; they had long lank hair on their heads, but none on their
faces, nor any thing more than a sort of down on the rest of their
bodies, except about the anus and pudenda.  The dugs hung between their
fore feet, and often reached almost to the ground as they walked.  The
hair of both sexes was of several colours, brown, red, black, and yellow.
Upon the whole, I never beheld, in all my travels, so disagreeable an
animal, or one against which I naturally conceived so strong an
antipathy.  So that, thinking I had seen enough, full of contempt and
aversion, I got up, and pursued the beaten road, hoping it might direct
me to the cabin of some Indian.  I had not got far, when I met one of
these creatures full in my way, and coming up directly to me.  The ugly
monster, when he saw me, distorted several ways, every feature of his
visage, and stared, as at an object he had never seen before; then
approaching nearer, lifted up his fore-paw, whether out of curiosity or
mischief I could not tell; but I drew my hanger, and gave him a good blow
with the flat side of it, for I durst not strike with the edge, fearing
the inhabitants might be provoked against me, if they should come to know
that I had killed or maimed any of their cattle.  When the beast felt the
smart, he drew back, and roared so loud, that a herd of at least forty
came flocking about me from the next field, howling and making odious
faces; but I ran to the body of a tree, and leaning my back against it,
kept them off by waving my hanger.  Several of this cursed brood, getting
hold of the branches behind, leaped up into the tree, whence they began
to discharge their excrements on my head; however, I escaped pretty well
by sticking close to the stem of the tree, but was almost stifled with
the filth, which fell about me on every side.

In the midst of this distress, I observed them all to run away on a
sudden as fast as they could; at which I ventured to leave the tree and
pursue the road, wondering what it was that could put them into this
fright.  But looking on my left hand, I saw a horse walking softly in the
field; which my persecutors having sooner discovered, was the cause of
their flight.  The horse started a little, when he came near me, but soon
recovering himself, looked full in my face with manifest tokens of
wonder; he viewed my hands and feet, walking round me several times.  I
would have pursued my journey, but he placed himself directly in the way,
yet looking with a very mild aspect, never offering the least violence.
We stood gazing at each other for some time; at last I took the boldness
to reach my hand towards his neck with a design to stroke it, using the
common style and whistle of jockeys, when they are going to handle a
strange horse.  But this animal seemed to receive my civilities with
disdain, shook his head, and bent his brows, softly raising up his right
fore-foot to remove my hand.  Then he neighed three or four times, but in
so different a cadence, that I almost began to think he was speaking to
himself, in some language of his own.

While he and I were thus employed, another horse came up; who applying
himself to the first in a very formal manner, they gently struck each
other’s right hoof before, neighing several times by turns, and varying
the sound, which seemed to be almost articulate.  They went some paces
off, as if it were to confer together, walking side by side, backward and
forward, like persons deliberating upon some affair of weight, but often
turning their eyes towards me, as it were to watch that I might not
escape.  I was amazed to see such ac