. Oo performed oor commission well, dood dallars both.(24) I made
mistakes the three last days, and am forced to alter the number.(25) I
dined in the City to-day with my printer, and came home early, and
am going to (be) busy with my work. I will send this to-morrow, and I
suppose the warrants will go then. I wrote to Dr. Coghill, to take care
of passing my patent; and to Parvisol, to attend him with money, if he
has any, or to borrow some where he can. Nite MD.

25. Morning. I know not whether my warrant be yet ready from the Duke of
Ormond. I suppose it will by tonight. I am going abroad, and will keep
this unsealed, till I know whether all be finished. Mollow,(26) sollahs.

I had this letter all day in my pocket, waiting till I heard the
warrants were gone over. Mr. Lewis sent to Southwell's clerk at ten; and
he said the Bishop of Killaloe(27) had desired they should be stopped
till next post. He sent again, that the Bishop of Killaloe's business
had nothing to do with ours. Then I went myself, but it was past eleven,
and asked the reason. Killaloe is removed to Raphoe, and he has a mind
to have an order for the rents of Raphoe, that have fallen due since the
vacancy, and he would have all stop till he has gotten that. A pretty
request! But the clerk, at Mr. Lewis's message, sent the warrants for
Sterne and me; but then it was too late to send this, which frets me
heartily, that MD should not have intelligence first from Pdfr. I
think to take a hundred pounds a year out of the deanery, and divide it
between MD and Pr,(28) and so be one year longer in paying the debt; but
we'll talk of zis hen I come over. So nite dear sollahs. Lele.(29)

26. I was at Court to-day, and a thousand people gave me joy; so I ran
out. I dined with Lady Orkney. Yesterday I dined with Lord Treasurer
and his Saturday people as usual; and was so bedeaned! The Archbishop
of York says he will never more speak against me. Pray see that Parvisol
stirs about getting my patent. I have given Tooke DD's note to prove she
is alive. I'll answer oo rettle.... Nite.

27. Nothing new to-day. I dined with Tom Harley, etc. I'll seal up this
to-night. Pray write soon.... MD MD MD FW FW FW ME ME ME Lele, lele.




LETTER 64.(1)

LONDON, May 16 (1713).

I had yours, No. 40, yesterday. Your new Bishop acts very ungratefully.
I cannot say so bad of it as he deserved. I begged at the same post
his warrant and mine went over, that he would leave those livings to my
disposal. I shall write this post to him to let him know how ill I take
it. I have letters to tell me that I ought to think of employing some
body to set the tithes of the deanery. I know not what to do at this
distance. I cannot be in Ireland under a month. I will write two orders;
one to Parvisol, and t'other to Parvisol, and a blank for whatever
fellow it is whom the last Dean employed; and I would desire you to
advise with friends which to make use of: and if the latter, let the
fellow's name be inserted, and both act by commission. If the former,
then speak to Parvisol, and know whether he can undertake it. I doubt it
is hardly to be done by a perfect stranger alone, as Parvisol is. He
may perhaps venture at all, to keep up his interest with me; but that is
needless, for I am willing to do him any good, that will do me no harm.
Pray advise with Walls and Raymond, and a little with Bishop Sterne
for form. Tell Raymond I cannot succeed for him to get that living of
Moimed. It is represented here as a great sinecure. Several chaplains
have solicited for it; and it has vexed me so, that, if I live, I will
make it my business to serve him better in something else. I am heartily
sorry for his illness, and that of the other two. If it be not necessary
to let the tithes till a month hence, you may keep the two papers, and
advise well in the meantime; and whenever it is absolutely necessary,
then give that paper which you are most advised to. I thank Mr. Walls
for his letter. Tell him that must serve for an answer, with my
service to him and her. I shall buy Bishop Sterne's hair as soon as his
household goods. I shall be ruined, or at least sadly cramped, unless
the Queen will give me a thousand pounds. I am sure she owes me a great
deal more. Lord Treasurer rallies me upon it, and I believe intends it;
but, quando? I am advised to hasten over as soon as possible, and so I
will, and hope to set out the beginning of June. Take no lodging for me.
What? at your old tricks again? I can lie somewhere after I land, and I
care not where, nor how. I will buy your eggs and bacon, DD... (2)
your caps and Bible; and pray think immediately, and give me some
commissions, and I will perform them as far as oo poo Pdfr can.(3)
The letter I sent before this was to have gone a post before; but an
accident hindered it; and, I assure oo, I wam very akkree(4) MD did
not write to Dean Pdfr, and I think oo might have had a Dean under your
girdle for the superscription. I have just finished my Treatise,(5) and
must be ten days correcting it. Farewell, deelest MD, MD, MD, FW, FW,
FW, ME, ME, ME, Lele.

You'll seal the two papers after my