ecause I must send away the letter,
not by the bell,(14) but early: and besides, I have not much more to say
at zis plesent liting.(15) Does MD never read at all now, pee?(16) But
oo walk plodigiousry, I suppose; oo make nothing of walking to, to,
to, ay, to Donnybrook. I walk too as much as I can, because sweating is
good; but I'll walk more if I go to Kensington. I suppose I shall have
no apples this year neither, for I dined t'other day with Lord Rivers,
who is sick at his country-house, and he showed me all his cherries
blasted. Nite deelest sollahs; farewell deelest rives; rove poo poo
Pdfr. Farewell deelest richar MD, MD, MD, FW, FW, FW, FW, FW, ME, ME,
Lele, ME, Lele, Lele, richar MD.




LETTER 48.(1)

KENSINGTON, June 17, 1712.

I have been so tosticated about since my last, that I could not go on in
my journal manner, though my shoulder is a great deal better; however, I
feel constant pain in it, but I think it diminishes, and I have cut off
some slices from my flannel. I have lodged here near a fortnight, partly
for the air and exercise, partly to be near the Court, where dinners
are to be found. I generally get a lift in a coach to town, and in the
evening I walk back. On Saturday I dined with the Duchess of Ormond at
her lodge near Sheen, and thought to get a boat back as usual. I walked
by the bank to Cue (Kew), but no boat, then to Mortlake, but no boat,
and it was nine o'clock. At last a little sculler called, full of nasty
people. I made him set me down at Hammersmith, so walked two miles
to this place, and got here by eleven. Last night I had another such
difficulty. I was in the City till past ten at night; it rained hard,
but no coach to be had. It gave over a little, and I walked all the way
here, and got home by twelve. I love these shabby difficulties when they
are over; but I hate them, because they arise from not having a thousand
pound a year. I had your N.30 about three days ago, which I will now
answer. And first, I did not relapse, but found(2) I came out before I
ought; and so, and so, as I have told you in some of my last. The first
coming abroad made people think I was quite recovered, and I had no more
messages afterwards. Well, but John Bull is not writ by the person you
imagine, as hope!(3) It is too good for another to own. Had it been Grub
Street, I would have let people think as they please; and I think that's
right: is not it now? so flap ee hand, and make wry mouth oo-self, sauci
doxi. Now comes DD. Why sollah, I did write in a fortnight my 47th;
and if it did not come in due time, can I help wind and weather? am I a
Laplander? am I a witch? can I work miracles? can I make easterly winds?
Now I am against Dr. Smith. I drink little water with my wine, yet I
believe he is right. Yet Dr. Cockburn told me a little wine would not
hurt me; but it is so hot and dry, and water is so dangerous. The worst
thing here is my evenings at Lord Masham's, where Lord Treasurer comes,
and we sit till after twelve. But it is convenient I should be among
them for a while as much as possible. I need not tell oo why. But I hope
that will be at an end in a month or two, one way or other, and I am
resolved it shall. But I can't go to Tunbridge, or anywhere else out of
the way, in this juncture. So Ppt designs for Templeoag (what a name
is that!). Whereabouts is that place? I hope not very far from Dublin.
Higgins is here, roaring that all is wrong in Ireland, and would have
me get him an audience of Lord Treasurer to tell him so; but I will have
nothing to do in it, no, not I, faith. We have had no thunder till last
night, and till then we were dead for want of rain; but there fell a
great deal: no field looked green. I reckon the Queen will go to Windsor
in three or four weeks: and if the Secretary takes a house there, I
shall be sometimes with him. But how affectedly Ppt talks of my being
here all the summer; which I do not intend: nor to stay one minute
longer in England than becomes the circumstances I am in. I wish you
would go soon into the country, and take a good deal of it; and where
better than Trim? Joe will be your humble servant, Parvisol your slave,
and Raymond at your command, for he piques himself on good manners. I
have seen Dilly's wife--and I have seen once or twice old Bradley(4)
here. He is very well, very old, and very wise: I believe I must go see
his wife, when I have leisure. I should be glad to see Goody Stoyte and
her husband; pray give them my humble service, and to Catherine, and to
Mrs. Walls--I am not the least bit in love with Mrs. Walls--I suppose
the cares of the husband increase with the fruitfulness of the wife. I
am grad at halt(5) to hear of Ppt's good health: pray let her finish it
by drinking waters. I hope DD had her bill, and has her money. Remember
to write a due time before ME money is wanted, and be good galls,
dood dallars, I mean, and no crying dallars. I heard somebody coming
upstairs, and forgot I was in the country; and I was afraid of a
visitor: that is one advantage of being here, that I am not teased with
solicitors. Molt, the chemist, is my acquaintance. My