mber I smell it again; I
believe I have singed the woollen curtain, and that is all, though I
cannot smoke it. Presto is plaguy silly to-night, an't he? Yes, and so
he be. Ay, but if I should wake and see fire. Well; I will venture; so
good-night, etc.

25. Pray, young women, if I write so much as this every day, how will
this paper hold a fortnight's work, and answer one of yours into the
bargain? You never think of this, but let me go on like a simpleton.
I wish you a merry Christmas, and many, many a one with poor Presto at
some pretty place. I was at church to-day by eight, and received the
Sacrament, and came home by ten; then went to Court at two: it was a
Collar-day, that is, when the Knights of the Garter wear their collars;
but the Queen stayed so late at Sacrament, that I came back, and dined
with my neighbour Ford, because all people dine at home on this day.
This is likewise a Collar-day all over England in every house, at least
where there is BRAWN: that's very well.--I tell you a good pun; a fellow
hard by pretends to cure agues, and has set out a sign, and spells it
EGOES; a gentleman and I observing it, he said, "How does that fellow
pretend to cure AGUES?" I said I did not know; but I was sure it was not
by a SPELL. That is admirable. And so you asked the Bishop about that
pun of Lord Stawel's brother. Bite! Have I caught you, young women? Must
you pretend to ask after roguish puns, and Latin ones too? Oh but you
smoked me, and did not ask the Bishop. Oh but you are a fool, and you
did. I met Vedeau again at Court to-day, and I observed he had a sword
on; I fancy he was broke, and has got a commission, but I never asked
him. Vedeau I think his name is, yet Parvisol's man is Vedel, that is
true. Bank Stock will fall like stock-fish by this bad news, and two
days ago I could have got twelve pounds by my bargain; but I do not
intend to sell, and in time it will rise. It is odd that my Lord
Peterborow foretold this loss two months ago, one night at Mr. Harley's,
when I was there; he bid us count upon it, that Stanhope would lose
Spain before Christmas; that he would venture his head upon it, and gave
us reasons; and though Mr. Harley argued the contrary, he still held to
his opinion. I was telling my Lord Angelsea this at Court this morning;
and a gentleman by said he had heard my Lord Peterborow affirm the same
thing. I have heard wise folks say, "An ill tongue may do much." And
'tis an odd saying,

     "Once I guessed right,
      And I got credit by't;
      Thrice I guessed wrong,
      And I kept my credit on."

No, it is you are sorry, not I.

26. By the Lord Harry, I shall be undone here with Christmas boxes.
The rogues of the Coffee-house have raised their tax, everyone giving
a crown; and I gave mine for shame, besides a great many half-crowns
to great men's porters, etc. I went to-day by water into the city, and
dined with no less a man than the City Printer.(6) There is an intimacy
between us, built upon reasons that you shall know when I see you; but
the rain caught me within twelvepenny length of home. I called at Mr.
Harley's, who was not within, dropped my half-crown with his porter,
drove to the Coffee-house, where the rain kept me till nine. I had
letters to-day from the Archbishop of Dublin and Mr. Bernage;(7) the
latter sends me a melancholy account of Lady Shelburne's(8) death, and
his own disappointments, and would gladly be a captain; if I can help
him, I will.

27. Morning. I bespoke a lodging over the way for tomorrow, and the dog
let it yesterday to another; I gave him no earnest, so it seems he could
do it; Patrick would have had me give him earnest to bind him; but I
would not. So I must go saunter to-day for a lodging somewhere else.
Did you ever see so open a winter in England? We have not had two frosty
days; but it pays it off in rain: we have not had three fair days
these six weeks. O, faith, I dreamt mightily of MD last night; but so
confused, I cannot tell a word. I have made Ford acquainted with Lewis;
and to-day we dined together: in the evening I called at one or two
neighbours, hoping to spend a Christmas evening; but none were at home,
they were all gone to be merry with others. I have often observed this,
that in merry times everybody is abroad; where the deuce are they? So
I went to the Coffee-house, and talked with Mr. Addison an hour, who at
last remembered to give me two letters, which I cannot answer to-night,
nor to-morrow neither, I can assure you, young women, count upon that. I
have other things to do than to answer naughty girls, an old saying and
true,

     Letters from MD's
     Must not be answered in ten days:

it is but bad rhyme, etc.

28. To-day I had a message from Sir Thomas Hanmer, to dine with him; the
famous Dr. Smalridge(9) was of the company, and we sat till six; and I
came home to my new lodgings in St. Albans Street,(10) where I pay the
same rent (eight shillings a week) for an apartment two pair of stairs;
but I have the use of the parlour to receive persons of quality, and I
am got into my new bed, etc.

29. Sir Andrew Fountaine has been very 