d drank Tokay, and then we went to the auction; but I did not lay
out above twelve shillings. My head is a little out of order to-night,
though no formal fit. My Lord Keeper has sent to invite me to dinner
to-morrow, and you'll dine better with the Dean; and God bless you. I
forgot to tell you that yesterday was sent me a Narrative printed, with
all the circumstances of Mr. Harley's stabbing. I had not time to do it
myself; so I sent my hints to the author of the Atalantis,(2) and she
has cooked it into a sixpenny pamphlet, in her own style, only the first
page is left as I was beginning it. But I was afraid of disobliging Mr.
Harley or Mr. St. John in one critical point about it, and so would not
do it myself. It is worth your reading, for the circumstances are all
true. My chest of Florence was sent me this morning, and cost me seven
and sixpence to two servants. I would give two guineas you had it, etc.

17. I was so out of order with my head this morning, that I was going to
send my excuses to my Lord Keeper; but however I got up at eleven, and
walked there after two, and stayed till eight. There was Sir Thomas
Mansel, Prior, George Granville, and Mr. Caesar,(3) and we were very
merry. My head is still wrong, but I have had no formal fit, only I
totter a little. I have left off snuff altogether. I have a noble roll
of tobacco for grating, very good. Shall I send it to MD, if she likes
that sort? My Lord Keeper and our this day's company are to dine on
Saturday with George Granville, and to-morrow I dine with Lord Anglesea.

18. Did you ever see such a blundering goosecap as Presto? I saw the
number 21 at top, and so I went on as if it were the day of the month,
whereas this is but Wednesday the 18th. How shall I do to blot and alter
them? I have made a shift to do it behind, but it is a great botch. I
dined with Lord Anglesea to-day, but did not go to the House of Commons
about the yarn; my head was not well enough. I know not what is the
matter; it has never been thus before: two days together giddy from
morning till night, but not with any violence or pain; and I totter
a little, but can make shift to walk. I doubt I must fall to my pills
again: I think of going into the country a little way. I tell you
what you must do henceforward: you must enclose your letter in a fair
half-sheet of paper, and direct the outside "To Erasmus Lewis, Esquire,
at my Lord Dartmouth's office at Whitehall": for I never go to the
Coffee-house, and they will grudge to take in my letters. I forgot to
tell you that your mother was to see me this morning, and brought me a
flask of sweet-water for a present, admirable for my head; but I shall
not smell to it. She is going to Sheen, with Lady Giffard: she would
fain send your papers over to you, or give them to me. Say what you
would have done, and it shall be done; because I love Stella, and she is
a good daughter, they say, and so is Dingley.

19. This morning General Webb was to give me a visit: he goes with
a crutch and stick, yet was forced to come up two pair of stairs. I
promised to dine with him, but afterwards sent my excuses, and dined
privately in my friend Lewis's lodgings at Whitehall, with whom I had
much business to talk of, relating to the public and myself. Little
Harrison the Tatler goes to-morrow to the secretaryship I got him at the
Hague, and Mr. St. John has made him a present of fifty guineas to bear
his charges. An't I a good friend? Why are not you a young fellow, that
I might prefer you? I had a letter from Bernage from Kinsale: he tells
me his commission for captain-lieutenant was ready for him at his
arrival: so there are two jackanapeses I have done with. My head is
something better this evening, though not well.

20. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary, whose packets were just come
in, and among them a letter from Lord Peterborow to me: he writes so
well, I have no mind to answer him, and so kind, that I must answer him.
The Emperor's(4) death must, I think, cause great alterations in Europe,
and, I believe, will hasten a peace. We reckon our King Charles will be
chosen Emperor, and the Duke of Savoy set up for Spain; but I believe
he will make nothing of it. Dr. Freind and I dined in the City at a
printer's, and it has cost me two shillings in coach-hire, and a great
deal more this week and month, which has been almost all rain, with now
and then sunshine, and is the truest April that I have known these many
years. The lime-trees in the Park are all out in leaves, though not
large leaves yet. Wise people are going into the country; but many think
the Parliament can hardly be up these six weeks. Mr. Harley was with the
Queen on Tuesday. I believe certainly he will be Lord Treasurer: I have
not seen him this week.

21. Morning. Lord Keeper, and I, and Prior, and Sir Thomas Mansel, have
appointed to dine this day with George Granville. My head, I thank God,
is better; but to be giddyish three or four days together mortified me.
I take no snuff, and I will be very regular in eating little and the
gentlest meats. How does poor Stella just now, with her deans and
her St