as not within: so the bottle and
letter were left for him at his lodgings, with strict orders to give
them to him; and I will send Patrick in a day or two, to know whether
it was given, etc. Dr. Stratford(12) and I dined to-day with Mr.
Stratford(13) in the City, by appointment; but I chose to walk there,
for exercise in the frost. But the weather had given a little, as you
women call it, so it was something slobbery. I did not get home till
nine.

     And now I'm in bed,
     To break your head.

23. Morning. They tell me it freezes again, but it is not so cold as
yesterday: so now I will answer a bit of your letter.--At night. O,
faith, I was just going to answer some of our MD's letter this morning,
when a printer came in about some business, and stayed an hour; so I
rose, and then came in Ben Tooke, and then I shaved and scribbled; and
it was such a terrible day, I could not stir out till one, and then I
called at Mrs. Barton's, and we went to Lady Worsley's, where we were to
dine by appointment. The Earl of Berkeley(14) is going to be married to
Lady Louisa Lennox, the Duke of Richmond's daughter. I writ this night
to Dean Sterne, and bid him tell you all about the bottle of palsy-water
by Smyth; and to-morrow morning I will say something to your letter.

24. Morning. Come now to your letter. As for your being even with me, I
have spoken to that already. So now, my dearly beloved, let us proceed
to the next. You are always grumbling that you han't letters fast
enough; "surely we shall have your tenth;" and yet, before you end your
letter, you own you have my eleventh.--And why did not MD go into the
country with the Bishop of Clogher? faith, such a journey would have
done you good; Stella should have rode, and Dingley gone in the coach.
The Bishop of Kilmore(15) I know nothing of; he is old, and may die; he
lives in some obscure corner, for I never heard of him. As for my old
friends, if you mean the Whigs, I never see them, as you may find by my
journals, except Lord Halifax, and him very seldom; Lord Somers never
since the first visit, for he has been a false, deceitful rascal.(16)
My new friends are very kind, and I have promises enough, but I do
not count upon them, and besides my pretences are very young to them.
However, we will see what may be done; and if nothing at all, I shall
not be disappointed; although perhaps poor MD may, and then I shall be
sorrier for their sakes than my own.--Talk of a merry Christmas (why do
you write it so then, young women? sauce for the goose is sauce for the
gander), I have wished you all that two or three letters ago. Good lack;
and your news, that Mr. St. John is going to Holland; he has no such
thoughts, to quit the great station he is in; nor, if he had, could I
be spared to go with him. So, faith, politic Madam Stella, you come
with your two eggs a penny, etc. Well, Madam Dingley, and so Mrs. Stoyte
invites you, and so you stay at Donnybrook, and so you could not write.
You are plaguy exact in your journals, from Dec. 25 to Jan. 4. Well,
Smyth and the palsy-water I have handled already, and he does not lodge
(or rather did not, for, poor man, now he is gone) at Mr. Jesse's, and
all that stuff; but we found his lodging, and I went to Stella's mother
on my own head, for I never remembered it was in the letter to desire
another bottle; but I was so fretted, so tosticated, and so impatient
that Stella should have her water (I mean decently, do not be rogues),
and so vexed with Sterne's carelessness.--Pray God, Stella's illness
may not return! If they come seldom, they begin to be weary; I judge by
myself; for when I seldom visit, I grow weary of my acquaintance.--Leave
a good deal of my tenth unanswered! Impudent slut, when did you ever
answer my tenth, or ninth, or any other number? or who desires you
to answer, provided you write? I defy the D---- to answer my letters:
sometimes there may be one or two things I should be glad you would
answer; but I forget them, and you never think of them. I shall never
love answering letters again, if you talk of answering. Answering,
quotha! pretty answerers truly.--As for the pamphlet you speak of, and
call it scandalous, and that one Mr. Presto is said to write it, hear my
answer. Fie, child, you must not mind what every idle body tells you--I
believe you lie, and that the dogs were not crying it when you said so;
come, tell truth. I am sorry you go to St. Mary's(17) so soon, you will
be as poor as rats; that place will drain you with a vengeance: besides,
I would have you think of being in the country in summer. Indeed,
Stella, pippins produced plentifully; Parvisol could not send from
Laracor: there were about half a score, I would be glad to know whether
they were good for anything.--Mrs. Walls at Donnybrook with you; why is
not she brought to bed? Well, well, well, Dingley, pray be satisfied;
you talk as if you were angry about the Bishop's not offering you
conveniences for the journey; and so he should.--What sort of Christmas?
Why, I have had no Christmas at all; and has it really been Christmas
of late? I never once thought of it. 