er I
were not troubled in my mind by the consciousness of some enormous crime,
for which I was punished, at the command of some prince, by exposing me
in that chest; as great criminals, in other countries, have been forced
to sea in a leaky vessel, without provisions: for although he should be
sorry to have taken so ill a man into his ship, yet he would engage his
word to set me safe ashore, in the first port where we arrived.”  He
added, “that his suspicions were much increased by some very absurd
speeches I had delivered at first to his sailors, and afterwards to
himself, in relation to my closet or chest, as well as by my odd looks
and behaviour while I was at supper.”

I begged his patience to hear me tell my story, which I faithfully did,
from the last time I left England, to the moment he first discovered me.
And, as truth always forces its way into rational minds, so this honest
worthy gentleman, who had some tincture of learning, and very good sense,
was immediately convinced of my candour and veracity.  But further to
confirm all I had said, I entreated him to give order that my cabinet
should be brought, of which I had the key in my pocket; for he had
already informed me how the seamen disposed of my closet.  I opened it in
his own presence, and showed him the small collection of rarities I made
in the country from which I had been so strangely delivered.  There was
the comb I had contrived out of the stumps of the king’s beard, and
another of the same materials, but fixed into a paring of her majesty’s
thumb-nail, which served for the back.  There was a collection of needles
and pins, from a foot to half a yard long; four wasp stings, like
joiner’s tacks; some combings of the queen’s hair; a gold ring, which one
day she made me a present of, in a most obliging manner, taking it from
her little finger, and throwing it over my head like a collar.  I desired
the captain would please to accept this ring in return for his
civilities; which he absolutely refused.  I showed him a corn that I had
cut off with my own hand, from a maid of honour’s toe; it was about the
bigness of Kentish pippin, and grown so hard, that when I returned
England, I got it hollowed into a cup, and set in silver.  Lastly, I
desired him to see the breeches I had then on, which were made of a
mouse’s skin.

I could force nothing on him but a footman’s tooth, which I observed him
to examine with great curiosity, and found he had a fancy for it.  He
received it with abundance of thanks, more than such a trifle could
deserve.  It was drawn by an unskilful surgeon, in a mistake, from one of
Glumdalclitch’s men, who was afflicted with the tooth-ache, but it was as
sound as any in his head.  I got it cleaned, and put it into my cabinet.
It was about a foot long, and four inches in diameter.

The captain was very well satisfied with this plain relation I had given
him, and said, “he hoped, when we returned to England, I would oblige the
world by putting it on paper, and making it public.”  My answer was,
“that we were overstocked with books of travels: that nothing could now
pass which was not extraordinary; wherein I doubted some authors less
consulted truth, than their own vanity, or interest, or the diversion of
ignorant readers; that my story could contain little beside common
events, without those ornamental descriptions of strange plants, trees,
birds, and other animals; or of the barbarous customs and idolatry of
savage people, with which most writers abound.  However, I thanked him
for his good opinion, and promised to take the matter into my thoughts.”

He said “he wondered at one thing very much, which was, to hear me speak
so loud;” asking me “whether the king or queen of that country were thick
of hearing?”  I told him, “it was what I had been used to for above two
years past, and that I admired as much at the voices of him and his men,
who seemed to me only to whisper, and yet I could hear them well enough.
But, when I spoke in that country, it was like a man talking in the
streets, to another looking out from the top of a steeple, unless when I
was placed on a table, or held in any person’s hand.”  I told him, “I had
likewise observed another thing, that, when I first got into the ship,
and the sailors stood all about me, I thought they were the most little
contemptible creatures I had ever beheld.”  For indeed, while I was in
that prince’s country, I could never endure to look in a glass, after
mine eyes had been accustomed to such prodigious objects, because the
comparison gave me so despicable a conceit of myself.  The captain said,
“that while we were at supper, he observed me to look at every thing with
a sort of wonder, and that I often seemed hardly able to contain my
laughter, which he knew not well how to take, but imputed it to some
disorder in my brain.”  I answered, “it was very true; and I wondered how
I could forbear, when I saw his dishes of the size of a silver
three-pence, a leg of pork hardly a mouthful, a cup not so big as a
nut-shell;” and so I went on, describing the rest of his household-stuff
and provisions, after the