nd her eyes and head: what shall we do
to cure them, poor dear life?" Or, "Now to Stella's little postscript;
and I am almost crazed that you vex yourself for not writing. Can't you
dictate to Dingley, and not strain your dear little eyes? I am sure
'tis the grief of my soul to think you are out of order." They had been
keeping his birthday; Swift wished he had been with them, rather than
in London, where he had no manner of pleasure: "I say Amen with all my
heart and vitals, that we may never be asunder again ten days together
while poor Presto lives." A few days later he says, "I wish I were at
Laracor, with dear charming MD," and again, "Farewell, dearest beloved
MD, and love poor poor Presto, who has not had one happy day since he
left you." "I will say no more, but beg you to be easy till Fortune
takes his course, and to believe MD's felicity is the great goal I aim
at in all my pursuits." "How does Stella look, Madam Dingley?" he asks;
"pretty well, a handsome young woman still? Will she pass in a crowd?
Will she make a figure in a country church?" Elsewhere he writes, on
receipt of a letter, "God Almighty bless poor dear Stella, and send her
a great many birthdays, all happy and healthy and wealthy, and with
me ever together, and never asunder again, unless by chance.... I can
hardly imagine you absent when I am reading your letter or writing to
you. No, faith, you are just here upon this little paper, and therefore
I see and talk with you every evening constantly, and sometimes in the
morning." The letters lay under Swift's pillow, and he fondled them as
if he were caressing Stella's hand.

Of Stella herself we naturally have no direct account in the Journal,
but we hear a good deal of her life in Ireland, and can picture what she
was. Among her friends in and about Trim and Laracor were Dr. Raymond,
the vicar of Trim, and his wife, the Garret Wesleys, the Percevals, and
Mr. Warburton, Swift's curate. At Dublin there were Archdeacon Walls and
his family; Alderman Stoyte, his wife and sister-in-law; Dean Sterne
and the Irish Postmaster-General, Isaac Manley. For years these friends
formed a club which met in Dublin at each other's houses, to sup and
play cards ("ombre and claret, and toasted oranges"), and we have
frequent allusions to Stella's indifferent play, and the money which
she lost, much to Mrs. Dingley's chagrin: "Poor Dingley fretted to
see Stella lose that four and elevenpence t'other night." Mrs. Dingley
herself could hardly play well enough to hold the cards while Stella
went into the next room. If at dinner the mutton was underdone, and
"poor Stella cannot eat, poor dear rogue," then "Dingley is so vexed."
Swift was for ever urging Stella to walk and ride; she was "naturally a
stout walker," and "Dingley would do well enough if her petticoats were
pinned up." And we see Stella setting out on and returning from her
ride, with her riband and mask: "Ah, that riding to Laracor gives me
short sighs as well as you," he says; "all the days I have passed here
have been dirt to those."

If the Journal shows us some of Swift's less attractive qualities, it
shows still more how great a store of humour, tenderness, and affection
there was in him. In these letters we see his very soul; in his literary
work we are seldom moved to anything but admiration of his wit and
genius. Such daily outpourings could never have been written for
publication, they were meant only for one who understood him perfectly;
and everything that we know of Stella--her kindliness, her wit, her
vivacity, her loyalty--shows that she was worthy of the confidence.




JOURNAL TO STELLA




LETTER 1.(1)

CHESTER, Sept. 2, 1710.

Joe(2) will give you an account of me till I got into the boat; after
which the rogues made a new bargain, and forced me to give them two
crowns, and talked as if we should not be able to overtake any ship: but
in half an hour we got to the yacht; for the ships lay by (to) wait for
my Lord Lieutenant's steward. We made our voyage in fifteen hours
just. Last night I came to this town, and shall leave it, I believe, on
Monday. The first man I met in Chester was Dr. Raymond.(3) He and Mrs.
Raymond were here about levying a fine, in order to have power to sell
their estate. They have found everything answer very well. They both
desire to present their humble services to you: they do not think of
Ireland till next year. I got a fall off my horse, riding here from
Parkgate,(4) but no hurt; the horse understanding falls very well, and
lying quietly till I get up. My duty to the Bishop of Clogher.(5) I saw
him returning from Dunleary; but he saw not me. I take it ill he was not
at Convocation, and that I have not his name to my powers.(6) I beg you
will hold your resolution of going to Trim, and riding there as much as
you can. Let the Bishop of Clogher remind the Bishop of Killala(7) to
send me a letter, with one enclosed to the Bishop of Lichfield.(8) Let
all who write to me, enclose to Richard Steele, Esq., at his office at
the Cockpit, near Whitehall.(9) But not MD; I will pay for their letters
at St. James's Coffee-house,(10