d
people of quality, who come to see the Queen, and have no place to dine
at.

9. Mr. Coke, the Vice-Chamberlain, made me a long visit this morning,
and invited me to dinner; but the toast, his lady,(20) was unfortunately
engaged to Lady Sunderland.(21) Lord Treasurer stole here last night,
but did not lie at his lodgings in the Castle; and, after seeing the
Queen, went back again. I just drank a dish of chocolate with him. I
fancy I shall have reason to be angry with him very soon; but what
care I? I believe I shall die with Ministries in my debt.--This night
I received a certain letter from a place called Wexford, from two dear
naughty girls of my acquaintance; but, faith, I will not answer it here,
no in troth. I will send this to Mr. Reading, supposing it will find you
returned; and I hope better for the waters.

10. Mr. Vice-Chamberlain lent me his horses to ride about and see
the country this morning. Dr. Arbuthnot, the Queen's physician and
favourite, went out with me to show me the places: we went a little
after the Queen, and overtook Miss Forester,(22) a maid of honour, on
her palfrey, taking the air; we made her go along with us. We saw a
place they have made for a famous horse-race to-morrow, where the Queen
will come. We met the Queen coming back, and Miss Forester stood, like
us, with her hat off while the Queen went by. The Doctor and I left the
lady where we found her, but under other conductors; and we dined at a
little place he has taken, about a mile off.--When I came back I found
Mr. Scarborow had sent all about to invite me to the Green Cloth, and
lessened his company on purpose to make me easy. It is very obliging,
and will cost me thanks. Much company is come to town this evening,
to see to-morrow's race. I was tired with riding a trotting mettlesome
horse a dozen miles, having not been on horseback this twelvemonth.
And Miss Forester did not make it easier; she is a silly true maid of
honour, and I did not like her, although she be a toast, and was dressed
like a man.(23)

11. I will send this letter to-day. I expect the Secretary by noon. I
will not go to the race unless I can get room in some coach. It is now
morning. I must rise, and fold up and seal my letter. Farewell, and God
preserve dearest MD.

I believe I shall leave this town on Monday.




LETTER 28.

WINDSOR, Aug. 11, 1711.

I sent away my twenty-seventh this morning in an express to London, and
directed to Mr. Reading: this shall go to your lodgings, where I reckon
you will be returned before it reaches you. I intended to go to the
race(1) to-day, but was hindered by a visit: I believe I told you so in
my last. I dined to-day at the Green Cloth, where everybody had been at
the race but myself, and we were twenty in all, and very noisy company;
but I made the Vice-Chamberlain and two friends more sit at a side
table, to be a little quiet. At six I went to see the Secretary, who is
returned; but Lord Keeper sent to desire I would sup with him, where I
stayed till just now: Lord Treasurer and Secretary were to come to us,
but both failed. 'Tis late, etc.

12. I was this morning to visit Lord Keeper, who made me reproaches
that I had never visited him at Windsor. He had a present sent him of
delicious peaches, and he was champing and champing, but I durst not eat
one; I wished Dingley had some of them, for poor Stella can no more eat
fruit than Presto. Dilly Ashe is come to Windsor; and after church
I carried him up to the drawing-room, and talked to the Keeper and
Treasurer, on purpose to show them to him; and he saw the Queen and
several great lords, and the Duchess of Montagu;(2) he was mighty happy,
and resolves to fill a letter to the Bishop.(3) My friend Lewis and I
dined soberly with Dr. Adams,(4) the only neighbour prebendary. One of
the prebendaries here is lately a peer, by the death of his father. He
is now Lord Willoughby of Broke,(5) and will sit in the House of Lords
with his gown. I supped to-night at Masham's with Lord Treasurer, Mr.
Secretary, and Prior. The Treasurer made us stay till twelve, before he
came from the Queen, and 'tis now past two.

13. I reckoned upon going to London to-day; but by an accident the
Cabinet Council did not sit last night, and sat to-day, so we go
to-morrow at six in the morning. I missed the race to-day by coming out
too late, when everybody's coach was gone, and ride I would not: I
felt my last riding three days after. We had a dinner to-day at the
Secretary's lodgings without him: Mr. Hare,(6) his Under Secretary,
Mr. Lewis, Brigadier Sutton,(7) and I, dined together; and I made the
Vice-Chamberlain take a snap with us, rather than stay till five for his
lady, who was gone to the race. The reason why the Cabinet Council was
not held last night was because Mr. Secretary St. John would not sit
with your Duke of Somerset.(8) So to-day the Duke was forced to go to
the race while the Cabinet was held. We have music-meetings in our town,
and I was at the rehearsal t'other day; but I did not value it, nor
would go to the meeting. Did I tell you this before?

London, 14. We came to town this day in t