scriptions; and
not one from MD. One I opened, it was from the Archbishop;(7) t'other
I opened, it was from Staunton;(8) the third I took, and looked at the
hand. Whose hand is this? says I; yes, says I, whose hand is this? Then
there was wax between the folds; then I began to suspect; then I peeped;
faith, it was Walls's hand after all: then I opened it in a rage, and
then it was little MD's hand, dear, little, pretty, charming MD's sweet
hand again. O Lord, an't here a clutter and a stir, and a bustle? never
saw the like. Faith, I believe yours lay some days at the post-office,
and that it came before my eighteenth went, but that I did not expect
it, and I hardly ever go there. Well, and so you think I'll answer this
letter now; no, faith, and so I won't. I'll make you wait, young women;
but I'll inquire immediately about poor Dingley's exchequer trangum.(9)
What, is that Vedel again a soldier? was he broke? I'll put it in Ben
Tooke's hand. I hope Vedel could not sell it.--At night. Vedel, Vedel,
poh, pox, I think it is Vedeau;(10) ay, Vedeau, now I have it; let me
see, do you name him in yours? Yes, Mr. John Vedeau is the brother; but
where does this brother live? I'll inquire. This was a fast-day for the
public; so I dined late with Sir Matthew Dudley, whom I have not been
with a great while. He is one of those that must lose his employment
whenever the great shake comes; and I can't contribute to keep him in,
though I have dropped words in his favour to the Ministry; but he is too
violent a Whig, and friend to the Lord Treasurer,(11) to stay in. 'Tis
odd to think how long they let those people keep their places; but the
reason is, they have not enough to satisfy all expecters, and so they
keep them all in hopes, that they may be good boys in the meantime; and
thus the old ones hold in still. The Comptroller(12) told me that there
are eight people expect his staff. I walked after dinner to-day round
the Park. What, do I write politics to little young women? Hold your
tongue, and go to your Dean's.

29. Morning. If this be a fine day, I will walk into the City, and see
Charles Barnard's library. What care I for your letter, saucy N.12? I
will say nothing to it yet: faith, I believe this will be full before
its time, and then go it must. I will always write once a fortnight; and
if it goes sooner by filling sooner, why, then there is so much clear
gain. Morrow, morrow, rogues and lasses both, I can't lie scribbling
here in bed for your play; I must rise, and so morrow again.--At night.
Your friend Montgomery and his sister are here, as I am told by Patrick.
I have seen him often, but take no notice of him: he is grown very ugly
and pimpled. They tell me he is a gamester, and wins money.--How could I
help it, pray? Patrick snuffed the candle too short, and the grease ran
down upon the paper.(13) It an't my fault, 'tis Patrick's fault; pray
now don't blame Presto. I walked today in the City, and dined at a
private house, and went to see the auction of poor Charles Barnard's
books; they were in the middle of the physic books, so I bought none;
and they are so dear, I believe I shall buy none, and there is an end;
and go to Stoyte's, and I'll go sleep.

30. Morning. This is Good Friday, you must know; and I must rise and go
to Mr. Secretary about some business, and Mrs. Vanhomrigh desires me to
breakfast with her, because she is to intercede for Patrick, who is so
often drunk and quarrelsome in the house, that I was resolved to send
him over; but he knows all the places where I send, and is so used to my
ways, that it would be inconvenient to me; but when I come to Ireland,
I will discharge him.(14) Sir Thomas Mansel,(15) one of the Lords of the
Treasury, setting me down at my door to-day, saw Patrick, and swore he
was a Teague-lander.(16) I am so used to his face, I never observed it,
but thought him a pretty fellow. Sir Andrew Fountaine and I supped this
fast-day with Mrs. Vanhomrigh. We were afraid Mr. Harley's wound would
turn to a fistula; but we think the danger is now past. He rises
every day, and walks about his room, and we hope he will be out in a
fortnight. Prior showed me a handsome paper of verses he has writ on Mr.
Harley's accident:(17) they are not out; I will send them to you, if he
will give me a copy.

31. Morning. What shall we do to make April fools this year, now it
happens on Sunday? Patrick brings word that Mr. Harley still mends, and
is up every day. I design to see him in a few days: and he brings me
word too that he has found out Vedeau's brother's shop: I shall call
there in a day or two. It seems the wife lodges next door to the
brother. I doubt the scoundrel was broke, and got a commission, or
perhaps is a volunteer gentleman, and expects to get one by his valour.
Morrow, sirrahs, let me rise.--At night. I dined to-day with Sir Thomas
Mansel. We were walking in the Park, and Mr. Lewis came to us. Mansel
asked where we dined. We said, "Together." He said, we should dine with
him, only his wife(18) desired him to bring nobody, because she had only
a leg of mutton. I said I would dine with him to cho