mind of Tisdall's outlandish would(16) at your hospital for the
soldiers. I was not at Court to-day, and I hear the Queen was not at
church. Perhaps the gout has seized her again. Terrible rain all day.
Have oo such weather? Nite MD.

30. Morning. I was naming some time ago, to a certain person, another
certain person, that was very deserving, and poor and sickly; and
t'other, that first certain person, gave me a hundred pounds to give the
other, which I have not yet done. The person who is to have it never
saw the giver, nor expects one farthing, nor has the least knowledge or
imagination of it; so I believe it will be a very agreeable surprise;
for I think it is a handsome present enough. At night I dined in the
City, at Pontack's,(17) with Lord Dupplin, and some others. We were
treated by one Colonel Cleland,(18) who has a mind to be Governor of
Barbados, and is laying these long traps for me and others, to engage
our interests for him. He is a true Scotchman. I paid the hundred pounds
this evening, and it was an agreeable surprise to the receiver. We
reckon the peace is now signed, and that we shall have it in three days.
I believe it is pretty sure. Nite MD.

31. I thought to-day on Ppt when she told me she suppose(d) I was
acquainted with the steward, when I was giving myself airs of being at
some lord's house. Sir Andrew Fountaine invited the Bishop of Clogher
and me, and some others, to dine where he did; and he carried us to the
Duke of Kent's,(19) who was gone out of town; but the steward treated
us nobly, and showed us the fine pictures, etc. I have not yet seen Miss
Ashe. I wait till she has been abroad, and taken the air. This evening
Lady Masham, Dr. Arbuthnot, and I, were contriving a lie for to-morrow,
that Mr. Noble,(20) who was hanged last Saturday, was recovered by
his friends, and then seized again by the sheriff, and is now in a
messenger's hands at the Black Swan in Holborn. We are all to send to
our friends, to know whether they have heard anything of it, and so we
hope it will spread. However, we shall do our endeavours; nothing shall
be wanting on our parts, and leave the rest to fortune. Nite MD.

April 1. We had no success in our story, though I sent my man to several
houses, to inquire among the footmen, without letting him into the
secret; but I doubt my colleagues did not contribute as they ought.
Parnell and I dined with Darteneuf(21) to-day. You have heard of
Darteneuf: I have told you of Darteneuf. After dinner we all went to
Lord Bolingbroke's, who had desired me to dine with him; but I would
not, because I heard it was to look over a dull poem of one parson
Trapp(22) upon the peace. The Swedish Envoy told me to-day at Court that
he was in great apprehensions about his master;(23) and indeed we are
afraid that prince has(24) died among those Turkish dogs. I prevailed on
Lord Bolingbroke to invite Mr. Addison to dine with him on Good Friday.
I suppose we shall be mighty mannerly. Addison is to have a play of his
acted on Friday in Easter Week: 'tis a tragedy, called Cato; I saw it
unfinished some years ago.(25) Did I tell you that Steele has begun a
new daily paper, called the Guardian?(26) they say good for nothing. I
have not seen it. Nite dee MD.

2. I was this morning with Lord Bolingbroke, and he tells me a Spanish
courier is just come, with the news that the King of Spain has agreed to
everything that the Queen desires; and the Duke d'Ossuna has left Paris
in order to his journey to Utrecht. I was prevailed on to come home with
Trapp, and read his poem and correct it; but it was good for nothing.
While I was thus employed, Sir Thomas Hanmer came up to my chamber, and
balked me of a journey he and I intended this week to Lord Orkney's at
Cliffden;(27) but he is not well, and his physician will not let him
undertake such a journey. I intended to dine with Lord Treasurer; but
going to see Colonel Disney, who lives with General Withers,(28) I liked
the General's little dinner so well, that I stayed and took share of
it, and did not go to Lord Treasurer till six, where I found Dr.
Sacheverell, who told us that the bookseller had given him 100 pounds
for his sermon,(29) preached last Sunday, and intended to print 30,000:
I believe he will be confoundedly bit, and will hardly sell above half.
I have fires still, though April has begun, against my old maxim; but
the weather is wet and cold. I never saw such a long run of ill weather
in my life. Nite dee logues MD.

3. I was at the Queen's chapel to-day, but she was not there. Mr. St.
John, Lord Bolingbroke's brother, came this day at noon with an express
from Utrecht, that the peace is signed by all the Ministers there, but
those of the Emperor, who will likewise sign in a few days; so that now
the great work is in effect done, and I believe it will appear a most
excellent peace for Europe, particularly for England. Addison and I, and
some others, dined with Lord Bolingbroke, and sat with him till twelve.
We were very civil, but yet when we grew warm, we talked in a friendly
manner of party. Addison raised his objections, and Lord Bolingbroke
a