loved
it mightily to-day.(27) What shall I bring?

16. Morning. Sir John Holland,(28) Comptroller of the Household, has
sent to desire my acquaintance: I have a mind to refuse him, because he
is a Whig, and will, I suppose, be out among the rest; but he is a man
of worth and learning. Tell me, do you like this journal way of writing?
Is it not tedious and dull?

Night. I dined to-day with a cousin, a printer,(29) where Patty Rolt
lodges, and then came home, after a visit or two; and it has been a very
insipid day. Mrs. Long's misfortune is confirmed to me; bailiffs were
in her house; she retired to private lodgings; thence to the country,
nobody knows where: her friends leave letters at some inn, and they
are carried to her; and she writes answers without dating them from any
place. I swear, it grieves me to the soul.

17. To-day I dined six miles out of town, with Will Pate,(30) the
learned woollen-draper; Mr. Stratford went with me; six miles here is
nothing: we left Pate after sunset, and were here before it was dark.
This letter shall go on Tuesday, whether I hear from MD or no. My health
continues pretty well; pray God Stella may give me a good account
of hers! and I hope you are now at Trim, or soon designing it. I was
disappointed to-night: the fellow gave me a letter, and I hoped to
see little MD's hand; and it was only to invite me to a venison pasty
to-day: so I lost my pasty into the bargain. Pox on these declining
courtiers! Here is Mr. Brydges,(31) the Paymaster-General, desiring my
acquaintance; but I hear the Queen sent Lord Shrewsbury(32) to assure
him he may keep his place; and he promises me great assistance in the
affair of the First-Fruits. Well, I must turn over this leaf to-night,
though the side would hold another line; but pray consider this is
a whole sheet; it holds a plaguy deal, and you must be content to
be weary; but I'll do so no more. Sir Simon Harcourt is made
Attorney-General, and not Lord Keeper.

18. To-day I dined with Mr. Stratford at Mr. Addison's retirement near
Chelsea; then came to town; got home early, and began a letter to the
Tatler,(33) about the corruptions of style and writing, etc., and,
having not heard from you, am resolved this letter shall go to-night.
Lord Wharton was sent for to town in mighty haste, by the Duke of
Devonshire:(34) they have some project in hand; but it will not do, for
every hour we expect a thorough revolution, and that the Parliament will
be dissolved. When you see Joe, tell him Lord Wharton is too busy to
mind any of his affairs; but I will get what good offices I can from
Mr. Addison, and will write to-day to Mr. Pratt; and bid Joe not to
be discouraged, for I am confident he will get the money under any
Government; but he must have patience.

19. I have been scribbling this morning, and I believe shall hardly
fill this side to-day, but send it as it is; and it is good enough for
naughty girls that won't write to a body, and to a good boy like Presto.
I thought to have sent this to-night, but was kept by company, and could
not; and, to say the truth, I had a little mind to expect one post more
for a letter from MD. Yesterday at noon died the Earl of Anglesea,(35)
the great support of the Tories; so that employment of Vice-Treasurer of
Ireland is again vacant. We were to have been great friends, and I could
hardly have a loss that could grieve me more. The Bishop of Durham(36)
died the same day. The Duke of Ormond's daughter(37) was to visit me
to-day at a third place by way of advance,(38) and I am to return
it to-morrow. I have had a letter from Lady Berkeley, begging me for
charity to come to Berkeley Castle, for company to my lord,(39) who
has been ill of a dropsy; but I cannot go, and must send my excuse
to-morrow. I am told that in a few hours there will be more removals.

20. To-day I returned my visits to the Duke's daughters;(40) the
insolent drabs came up to my very mouth to salute me. Then I heard the
report confirmed of removals; my Lord President Somers; the Duke of
Devonshire, Lord Steward; and Mr. Boyle,(41) Secretary of State, are all
turned out to-day. I never remember such bold steps taken by a Court: I
am almost shocked at it, though I did not care if they were all hanged.
We are astonished why the Parliament is not yet dissolved, and why they
keep a matter of that importance to the last. We shall have a strange
winter here, between the struggles of a cunning provoked discarded
party, and the triumphs of one in power; of both which I shall be an
indifferent spectator, and return very peaceably to Ireland, when I have
done my part in the affair I am entrusted with, whether it succeeds
or no. To-morrow I change my lodgings in Pall Mall for one in Bury
Street,(42) where I suppose I shall continue while I stay in London. If
anything happens tomorrow, I will add it.--Robin's Coffee-house.(43) We
have great news just now from Spain; Madrid taken, and Pampeluna. I am
here ever interrupted.

21. I have just received your letter, which I will not answer now;
God be thanked all things are so well. I find you have not yet had my
second: I had 