aders come along, and the king
sold them the niggers reasonable, for three-day drafts as they called
it, and away they went, the two sons up the river to Memphis, and their
mother down the river to Orleans.  I thought them poor girls and them
niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around each
other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it.  The girls
said they hadn't ever dreamed of seeing the family separated or sold
away from the town.  I can't ever get it out of my memory, the sight of
them poor miserable girls and niggers hanging around each other's necks
and crying; and I reckon I couldn't a stood it all, but would a had
to bust out and tell on our gang if I hadn't knowed the sale warn't no
account and the niggers would be back home in a week or two.

The thing made a big stir in the town, too, and a good many come out
flatfooted and said it was scandalous to separate the mother and the
children that way.  It injured the frauds some; but the old fool he
bulled right along, spite of all the duke could say or do, and I tell
you the duke was powerful uneasy.

Next day was auction day.  About broad day in the morning the king and
the duke come up in the garret and woke me up, and I see by their look
that there was trouble.  The king says:

"Was you in my room night before last?"

"No, your majesty"?which was the way I always called him when nobody but
our gang warn't around.

"Was you in there yisterday er last night?"

"No, your majesty."

"Honor bright, now?no lies."

"Honor bright, your majesty, I'm telling you the truth.  I hain't been
a-near your room since Miss Mary Jane took you and the duke and showed
it to you."

The duke says:

"Have you seen anybody else go in there?"

"No, your grace, not as I remember, I believe."

"Stop and think."

I studied awhile and see my chance; then I says:

"Well, I see the niggers go in there several times."

Both of them gave a little jump, and looked like they hadn't ever
expected it, and then like they _had_.  Then the duke says:

"What, all of them?"

"No?leastways, not all at once?that is, I don't think I ever see them
all come _out_ at once but just one time."

"Hello!  When was that?"

"It was the day we had the funeral.  In the morning.  It warn't early,
because I overslept.  I was just starting down the ladder, and I see
them."

"Well, go on, _go_ on!  What did they do?  How'd they act?"

"They didn't do nothing.  And they didn't act anyway much, as fur as I
see. They tiptoed away; so I seen, easy enough, that they'd shoved in
there to do up your majesty's room, or something, s'posing you was up;
and found you _warn't_ up, and so they was hoping to slide out of the
way of trouble without waking you up, if they hadn't already waked you
up."

"Great guns, _this_ is a go!" says the king; and both of them looked
pretty sick and tolerable silly.  They stood there a-thinking and
scratching their heads a minute, and the duke he bust into a kind of a
little raspy chuckle, and says:

"It does beat all how neat the niggers played their hand.  They let on
to be _sorry_ they was going out of this region!  And I believed they
_was_ sorry, and so did you, and so did everybody.  Don't ever tell _me_
any more that a nigger ain't got any histrionic talent.  Why, the way
they played that thing it would fool _anybody_.  In my opinion, there's
a fortune in 'em.  If I had capital and a theater, I wouldn't want a
better lay-out than that?and here we've gone and sold 'em for a song.
 Yes, and ain't privileged to sing the song yet.  Say, where _is_ that
song?that draft?"

"In the bank for to be collected.  Where _would_ it be?"

"Well, _that's_ all right then, thank goodness."

Says I, kind of timid-like:

"Is something gone wrong?"

The king whirls on me and rips out:

"None o' your business!  You keep your head shet, and mind y'r own
affairs?if you got any.  Long as you're in this town don't you forgit
_that_?you hear?"  Then he says to the duke, "We got to jest swaller it
and say noth'n':  mum's the word for _us_."

As they was starting down the ladder the duke he chuckles again, and
says:

"Quick sales _and_ small profits!  It's a good business?yes."

The king snarls around on him and says:

"I was trying to do for the best in sellin' 'em out so quick.  If the
profits has turned out to be none, lackin' considable, and none to
carry, is it my fault any more'n it's yourn?"

"Well, _they'd_ be in this house yet and we _wouldn't_ if I could a got
my advice listened to."

The king sassed back as much as was safe for him, and then swapped
around and lit into _me_ again.  He give me down the banks for not
coming and _telling_ him I see the niggers come out of his room acting
that way?said any fool would a _knowed_ something was up.  And then
waltzed in and cussed _himself_ awhile, and said it all come of him not
laying late and taking his natural rest that morning, and he'd be
blamed if he'd ever do it again.  So they went off a-jawing; and I felt
dreadful glad I'd worked it all off on to the niggers, and yet hadn't
done the niggers no harm by it.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

BY and 