e--an account which had some inaccuracies in it, but as
an exhibition of the _spirit_ of that duel, I think it was correct and
trustworthy. And when I was living in Vienna, thirty-four years after my
ineffectual duel, my interest in that kind of incident was still strong;
and I find here among my Autobiographical manuscripts of that day a
chapter which I began concerning it, but did not finish. I wanted to
finish it, but held it open in the hope that the Italian ambassador, M.
Nigra, would find time to furnish me the _full_ history of Señor
Cavalotti's adventures in that line. But he was a busy man; there was
always an interruption before he could get well started; so my hope was
never fulfilled. The following is the unfinished chapter:


[Sidenote: (1898.)]

     As concerns duelling. This pastime is as common in Austria to-day
     as it is in France. But with this difference, that here in the
     Austrian States the duel is dangerous, while in France it is not.
     Here it is tragedy, in France it in comedy; here it is a solemnity,
     there it is monkey-shines; here the duellist risks his life, there
     he does not even risk his shirt. Here he fights with pistol or
     sabre, in France with a hairpin--a blunt one. Here the desperately
     wounded man tries to walk to the hospital; there they paint the
     scratch so that they can find it again, lay the sufferer on a
     stretcher, and conduct him off the field with a band of music.

     At the end of a French duel the pair hug and kiss and cry, and
     praise each other's valor; then the surgeons make an examination
     and pick out the scratched one, and the other one helps him on to
     the litter and pays his fare; and in return the scratched one
     treats to champagne and oysters in the evening, and then "the
     incident is closed," as the French say. It is all polite, and
     gracious, and pretty, and impressive. At the end of an Austrian
     duel the antagonist that is alive gravely offers his hand to the
     other man, utters some phrases of courteous regret, then bids him
     good-by and goes his way, and that incident also is closed. The
     French duellist is painstakingly protected from danger, by the
     rules of the game. His antagonist's weapon cannot reach so far as
     his body; if he get a scratch it will not be above his elbow. But
     in Austria the rules of the game do not provide against danger,
     they carefully provide _for_ it, usually. Commonly the combat must
     be kept up until one of the men is disabled; a non-disabling slash
     or stab does not retire him.

     For a matter of three months I watched the Viennese journals, and
     whenever a duel was reported in their telegraphic columns I
     scrap-booked it. By this record I find that duelling in Austria is
     not confined to journalists and old maids, as in France, but is
     indulged in by military men, journalists, students, physicians,
     lawyers, members of the legislature, and even the Cabinet, the
     Bench and the police. Duelling is forbidden by law; and so it seems
     odd to see the makers and administrators of the laws dancing on
     their work in this way. Some months ago Count Bodeni, at that time
     Chief of the Government, fought a pistol-duel here in the capital
     city of the Empire with representative Wolf, and both of those
     distinguished Christians came near getting turned out of the
     Church--for the Church as well as the State forbids duelling.

     In one case, lately, in Hungary, the police interfered and stopped
     a duel after the first innings. This was a sabre-duel between the
     chief of police and the city attorney. Unkind things were said
     about it by the newspapers. They said the police remembered their
     duty uncommonly well when their own officials were the parties
     concerned in duels. But I think the underlings showed good
     bread-and-butter judgment. If their superiors had carved each other
     well, the public would have asked, Where were the police? and their
     places would have been endangered; but custom does not require them
     to be around where mere unofficial citizens are explaining a thing
     with sabres.

     There was another duel--a double duel--going on in the immediate
     neighborhood at the time, and in this case the police obeyed custom
     and did not disturb it. Their bread and butter was not at stake
     there. In this duel a physician fought a couple of surgeons, and
     wounded both--one of them lightly, the other seriously. An
     undertaker wanted to keep people from interfering, but that was
     quite natural again.

     Selecting at random from my record, I next find a duel at Tarnopol
     between military men. An officer of the Tenth Dragoons charged an
     officer of the Ninth Dragoons with an offence against the laws of
     the card-table. There was a defect or a doubt somewhere in the
     matter, and this had to be examined and passed upon by a Court of
     Honor. So the case was sent up to Lemberg for this purpose. One
     would lik