oker-clergy say, and two can't talk at the same time with good effect.
It reminds me of the man who was reproached by a friend, who said,

"I think it a shame that you have not spoken to your wife for fifteen
years. How do you explain it? How do you justify it?"

That poor man said,

"I didn't want to interrupt her."

If the Emperor had been at my table, he would not have suffered from my
silence, he would only have suffered from the sorrows of his own
solitude. If I were not too old to travel, I would go to Berlin and
introduce the etiquette of my own table, which tallies with the
etiquette observable at other royal tables. I would say, "Invite me
again, your Majesty, and give me a chance"; then I would courteously
waive rank and do all the talking myself. I thank his Majesty for his
kind message, and am proud to have it and glad to express my sincere
reciprocation of its sentiments.

[_Dictated January 17, 1906._] ... Rev. Joseph T. Harris and I have been
visiting General Sickles. Once, twenty or twenty-five years ago, just as
Harris was coming out of his gate Sunday morning to walk to his church
and preach, a telegram was put into his hand. He read it immediately,
and then, in a manner, collapsed. It said: "General Sickles died last
night at midnight." [He had been a chaplain under Sickles through the
war.]

[Sidenote: (1880.)]

It wasn't so. But no matter--it was so to Harris at the time. He walked
along--walked to the church--but his mind was far away. All his
affection and homage and worship of his General had come to the fore.
His heart was full of these emotions. He hardly knew where he was. In
his pulpit, he stood up and began the service, but with a voice over
which he had almost no command. The congregation had never seen him thus
moved, before, in his pulpit. They sat there and gazed at him and
wondered what was the matter; because he was now reading, in this broken
voice and with occasional tears trickling down his face, what to them
seemed a quite unemotional chapter--that one about Moses begat Aaron,
and Aaron begat Deuteronomy, and Deuteronomy begat St. Peter, and St.
Peter begat Cain, and Cain begat Abel--and he was going along with this,
and half crying--his voice continually breaking. The congregation left
the church that morning without being able to account for this most
extraordinary thing--as it seemed to them. That a man who had been a
soldier for more than four years, and who had preached in that pulpit so
many, many times on really moving subjects, without even the quiver of a
lip, should break all down over the Begats, they couldn't understand.
But there it is--any one can see how such a mystery as that would arouse
the curiosity of those people to the boiling-point.

Harris has had many adventures. He has more adventures in a year than
anybody else has in five. One Saturday night he noticed a bottle on his
uncle's dressing-bureau. He thought the label said "Hair Restorer," and
he took it in his room and gave his head a good drenching and sousing
with it and carried it back and thought no more about it. Next morning
when he got up his head was a bright green! He sent around everywhere
and couldn't get a substitute preacher, so he had to go to his church
himself and preach--and he did it. He hadn't a sermon in his barrel--as
it happened--of any lightsome character, so he had to preach a very
grave one--a very serious one--and it made the matter worse. The gravity
of the sermon did not harmonize with the gayety of his head, and the
people sat all through it with handkerchiefs stuffed in their mouths to
try to keep down their joy. And Harris told me that he was sure he never
had seen his congregation--the whole body of his congregation--the
_entire_ body of his congregation--absorbed in interest in his sermon,
from beginning to end, before. Always there had been an aspect of
indifference, here and there, or wandering, somewhere; but this time
there was nothing of the kind. Those people sat there as if they
thought, "Good for this day and train only: we must have all there is of
this show, not waste any of it." And he said that when he came down out
of the pulpit more people waited to shake him by the hand and tell him
what a good sermon it was, than ever before. And it seemed a pity that
these people should do these fictions in such a place--right in the
church--when it was quite plain they were not interested in the sermon
at all; they only wanted to get a near view of his head.

Well, Harris said--no, Harris didn't say, _I_ say, that as the days went
on and Sunday followed Sunday, the interest in Harris's hair grew and
grew; because it didn't stay merely and monotonously green, it took on
deeper and deeper shades of green; and then it would change and become
reddish, and would go from that to some other color--purplish,
yellowish, bluish, and so on--but it was never a solid color. It was
always mottled. And each Sunday it was a little more interesting than it
was the Sunday before--and Harris's head became famous, and people came
from New York, and Boston, and South Carolina, and Japan, and so on, t