they reached
     Hartford he became very sick, and his trouble prooved to be
     diptheeria. He died about a week after mamma and papa reached
     Hartford. He was burried by the side of grandpa at Elmira, New
     York. [Susy rests there with them.--S. L. C.] After that, mamma
     became very very ill, so ill that there seemed great danger of
     death, but with a great deal of good care she recovered. Some
     months afterward mamma and papa [and Susy, who was perhaps fourteen
     or fifteen months old at the time.--S. L. C.] went to Europe and
     stayed for a time in Scotland and England. In Scotland mamma and
     papa became very well equanted with Dr. John Brown, the author of
     "Rab and His Friends," and he mett, but was not so well equanted
     with, Mr. Charles Kingsley, Mr. Henry M. Stanley, Sir Thomas Hardy
     grandson of the Captain Hardy to whom Nellson said "Kiss me Hardy,"
     when dying on shipboard, Mr. Henry Irving, Robert Browning, Sir
     Charles Dilke, Mr. Charles Reade, Mr. William Black, Lord Houghton,
     Frank Buckland, Mr. Tom Hughes, Anthony Trollope, Tom Hood, son of
     the poet--and mamma and papa were quite well equanted with Dr.
     Macdonald and family, and papa met Harrison Ainsworth.


I remember all these men very well indeed, except the last one. I do not
recall Ainsworth. By my count, Susy mentions fourteen men. They are all
dead except Sir Charles Dilke.

We met a great many other interesting people, among them Lewis Carroll,
author of the immortal "Alice"--but he was only interesting to look at,
for he was the stillest and shyest full-grown man I have ever met except
"Uncle Remus." Dr. Macdonald and several other lively talkers were
present, and the talk went briskly on for a couple of hours, but Carroll
sat still all the while except that now and then he answered a question.
His answers were brief. I do not remember that he elaborated any of
them.

At a dinner at Smalley's we met Herbert Spencer. At a large luncheon
party at Lord Houghton's we met Sir Arthur Helps, who was a celebrity of
world-wide fame at the time, but is quite forgotten now. Lord Elcho, a
large vigorous man, sat at some distance down the table. He was talking
earnestly about Godalming. It was a deep and flowing and unarticulated
rumble, but I got the Godalming pretty clearly every time it broke free
of the rumble, and as all the strength was on the first end of the word
it startled me every time, because it sounded so like swearing. In the
middle of the luncheon Lady Houghton rose, remarked to the guests on her
right and on her left in a matter-of-fact way, "Excuse me, I have an
engagement," and without further ceremony she went off to meet it. This
would have been doubtful etiquette in America. Lord Houghton told a
number of delightful stories. He told them in French, and I lost nothing
of them but the nubs.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (_To be Continued._)

FOOTNOTE:

[5] I was his publisher. I was putting his "Personal Memoirs" to press
at the time.--S. L. C.




NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCIV.

DECEMBER 7, 1906.


CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--VII.

BY MARK TWAIN.


I was always heedless. I was born heedless; and therefore I was
constantly, and quite unconsciously, committing breaches of the minor
proprieties, which brought upon me humiliations which ought to have
humiliated me but didn't, because I didn't know anything had happened.
But Livy knew; and so the humiliations fell to her share, poor child,
who had not earned them and did not deserve them. She always said I was
the most difficult child she had. She was very sensitive about me. It
distressed her to see me do heedless things which could bring me under
criticism, and so she was always watchful and alert to protect me from
the kind of transgressions which I have been speaking of.

When I was leaving Hartford for Washington, upon the occasion referred
to, she said: "I have written a small warning and put it in a pocket of
your dress-vest. When you are dressing to go to the Authors' Reception
at the White House you will naturally put your fingers in your vest
pockets, according to your custom, and you will find that little note
there. Read it carefully, and do as it tells you. I cannot be with you,
and so I delegate my sentry duties to this little note. If I should give
you the warning by word of mouth, now, it would pass from your head and
be forgotten in a few minutes."

It was President Cleveland's first term. I had never seen his wife--the
young, the beautiful, the good-hearted, the sympathetic, the
fascinating. Sure enough, just as I had finished dressing to go to the
White House I found that little note, which I had long ago forgotten. It
was a grave little note, a serious little note, like its writer, but it
made me laugh. Livy's gentle gravities often produced that effect upon
me, where the expert humorist's best joke would have failed, for I do
not laugh easily.

When we reached the White House and I was shaking hands with the
President, he started to say somethin