ther will recognize
her without difficulty, and will say that the lines are drawn with a
just judgment and a sure hand. Little creature though Susy was, the
penetration which was born in her finds its way to the surface more than
once in these pages.

Before Susy began the Biography she let fall a remark now and then
concerning my character which showed that she had it under observation.
In the Record which we kept of the children's sayings there is an
instance of this. She was twelve years old at the time. We had
established a rule that each member of the family must bring a fact to
breakfast--a fact drawn from a book or from any other source; any fact
would answer. Susy's first contribution was in substance as follows. Two
great exiles and former opponents in war met in Ephesus--Scipio and
Hannibal. Scipio asked Hannibal to name the greatest general the world
had produced.

"Alexander"--and he explained why.

"And the next greatest?"

"Pyrrhus"--and he explained why.

"But where do you place yourself, then?"

"If I had conquered you I would place myself before the others."

Susy's grave comment was--

"That _attracted_ me, it was just like papa--he is so frank about his
books."

So frank in admiring them, she meant.


[_Thursday, March 28, 1907._] Some months ago I commented upon a chapter
of Susy's Biography wherein she very elaborately discussed an article
about the training and disciplining of children, which I had published
in the "Christian Union" (this was twenty-one years ago), an article
which was full of worshipful praises of Mrs. Clemens as a mother, and
which little Clara, and Susy, and I had been hiding from this lovely and
admirable mother because we knew she would disapprove of public and
printed praises of herself. At the time that I was dictating these
comments, several months ago, I was trying to call back to my memory
some of the details of that article, but I was not able to do it, and I
wished I had a copy of the article so that I could see what there was
about it which gave it such large interest for Susy.

Yesterday afternoon I elected to walk home from the luncheon at the St.
Regis, which is in 56th Street and Fifth Avenue, for it was a fine
spring day and I hadn't had a walk for a year or two, and felt the need
of exercise. As I walked along down Fifth Avenue the desire to see that
"Christian Union" article came into my head again. I had just reached
the corner of 42nd Street then, and there was the usual jam of wagons,
carriages, and automobiles there. I stopped to let it thin out before
trying to cross the street, but a stranger, who didn't require as much
room as I do, came racing by and darted into a crack among the vehicles
and made the crossing. But on his way past me he thrust a couple of
ancient newspaper clippings into my hand, and said,

"There, you don't know me, but I have saved them in my scrap-book for
twenty years, and it occurred to me this morning that perhaps you would
like to see them, so I was carrying them down-town to mail them, I not
expecting to run across you in this accidental way, of course; but I
will give them into your own hands now. Good-by!"--and he disappeared
among the wagons.

Those scraps which he had put into my hand were ancient newspaper copies
of that "Christian Union" article! It is a handsome instance of mental
telegraphy--or if it isn't that, it is a handsome case of coincidence.

_From the Biography._


     _March 14th, '86._--Mr. Laurence Barrette and Mr. and Mrs. Hutton
     were here a little while ago, and we had a very interesting visit
     from them. Papa said Mr. Barette never had acted so well before
     when he had seen him, as he did the first night he was staying with
     us. And Mrs. ---- said she never had seen an actor on the stage,
     whom she more wanted to speak with.

     Papa has been very much interested of late, in the "Mind Cure"
     theory. And in fact so have we all. A young lady in town has worked
     wonders by using the "Mind Cure" upon people; she is constantly
     busy now curing peoples deseases in this way--and curing her own
     even, which to me seems the most remarkable of all.

     A little while past, papa was delighted with the knowledge of what
     he thought the best way of curing a cold, which was by starving it.
     This starving did work beautifully, and freed him from a great many
     severe colds. Now he says it wasn't the starving that helped his
     colds, but the trust in the starving, the mind cure connected with
     the starving.

     I shouldn't wonder if we finally became firm believers in Mind
     Cure. The next time papa has a cold, I haven't a doubt, he will
     send for Miss H---- the young lady who is doctoring in the "Mind
     Cure" theory, to cure him of it.

     Mamma was over at Mrs. George Warners to lunch the other day, and
     Miss H---- was there too. Mamma asked if anything as natural as
     near sightedness could be cured she said oh yes just as well as
     other deseases.

     When mamma came home, she took me into her room, and told me that
     perhaps my near-si