ry. We explained the game to him,
and said that there were forty-one balls, and that the player was
privileged to extend his inning and keep on playing until he had used
them all up--repeatedly--and that for every ten-strike he got a prize.
We didn't name the prize--it wasn't necessary, as no prize would ever be
needed or called for. He started a sarcastic smile, but quenched it,
according to the etiquette of his profession. He merely remarked that he
would like to select a couple of medium balls and one small one, adding
that he didn't think he would need the rest.

Then he began, and he was an astonished man. He couldn't get a ball to
stay on the alley. When he had fired about fifteen balls and hadn't yet
reached the cluster of pins, his annoyance began to show out through his
clothes. He wouldn't let it show in his face; but after another fifteen
balls he was not able to control his face; he didn't utter a word, but
he exuded mute blasphemy from every pore. He asked permission to take
off his coat, which was granted; then he turned himself loose, with
bitter determination, and although he was only an infantry officer he
could have been mistaken for a battery, he got up such a volleying
thunder with those balls. Presently he removed his cravat; after a
little he took off his vest; and still he went bravely on. Higgins was
suffocating. My condition was the same, but it would not be courteous to
laugh; it would be better to burst, and we came near it. That officer
was good pluck. He stood to his work without uttering a word, and kept
the balls going until he had expended the outfit four times, making four
times forty-one shots; then he had to give it up, and he did; for he was
no longer able to stand without wobbling. He put on his clothes, bade us
a courteous good-by, invited us to call at the Fort, and started away.
Then he came back, and said,

"What is the prize for the ten-strike?"

We had to confess that we had not selected it yet.

He said, gravely, that he thought there was no occasion for hurry about
it.

I believe Bateman's alley was a better one than any other in America, in
the matter of the essentials of the game. It compelled skill; it
provided opportunity for bets; and if you could get a stranger to do the
bowling for you, there was more and wholesomer and delightfuler
entertainment to be gotten out of his industries than out of the finest
game by the best expert, and played upon the best alley elsewhere in
existence.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (_To be Continued._)




NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXXV.

DECEMBER, 1907.


CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XXV.

BY MARK TWAIN.


_January 11, 1906._ Answer to a letter received this morning:


     DEAR MRS. H.,--I am forever your debtor for reminding me of that
     curious passage in my life. During the first year or two after it
     happened, I could not bear to think of it. My pain and shame were
     so intense, and my sense of having been an imbecile so settled,
     established and confirmed, that I drove the episode entirely from
     my mind--and so all these twenty-eight or twenty-nine years I have
     lived in the conviction that my performance of that time was
     coarse, vulgar and destitute of humor. But your suggestion that you
     and your family found humor in it twenty-eight years ago moved me
     to look into the matter. So I commissioned a Boston typewriter to
     delve among the Boston papers of that bygone time and send me a
     copy of it.

     It came this morning, and if there is any vulgarity about it I am
     not able to discover it. If it isn't innocently and ridiculously
     funny, I am no judge. I will see to it that you get a copy.


                Address of Samuel L. Clemens ("Mark Twain")
            From a report of the dinner given by the Publishers
                 of the Atlantic Monthly in honor of the
                      Seventieth Anniversary of the
         Birth of John Greenleaf Whittier, at the Hotel Brunswick,
                         Boston, December 17, 1877,
                            as published in the
                         BOSTON EVENING TRANSCRIPT,
                             December 18, 1877


     Mr. Chairman--This is an occasion peculiarly meet for the digging
     up of pleasant reminiscences concerning literary folk; therefore I
     will drop lightly into history myself. Standing here on the shore
     of the Atlantic and contemplating certain of its largest literary
     billows, I am reminded of a thing which happened to me thirteen
     years ago, when I had just succeeded in stirring up a little
     Nevadian literary puddle myself, whose spume-flakes were beginning
     to blow thinly Californiawards. I started an inspection tramp
     through the southern mines of California. I was callow and
     conceited, and I resolved to try the virtue of my _nom de guerre._
     I very soon had an opportunity. I knocked at a miner's lonely log
     cabin in the foothills of the Sierras just at nightfall. It was
     snowing at the