er kind.

     He is as much of a Pholosopher as anything I think. I think he
     could have done a great deal in this direction if he had studied
     while young, for he seems to enjoy reasoning out things, no matter
     what; in a great many such directions he has greater ability than
     in the gifts which have made him famous.


Thus at fourteen she had made up her mind about me, and in no timorous
or uncertain terms had set down her reasons for her opinion. Fifteen
years were to pass before any other critic--except Mr. Howells, I
think--was to reutter that daring opinion and print it. Right or wrong,
it was a brave position for that little analyser to take. She never
withdrew it afterward, nor modified it. She has spoken of herself as
lacking physical courage, and has evinced her admiration of Clara's; but
she had moral courage, which is the rarest of human qualities, and she
kept it functionable by exercising it. I think that in questions of
morals and politics she was usually on my side; but when she was not
she had her reasons and maintained her ground. Two years after she
passed out of my life I wrote a Philosophy. Of the three persons who
have seen the manuscript only one understood it, and all three condemned
it. If she could have read it, she also would have condemned it,
possibly,--probably, in fact--but she would have understood it. It would
have had no difficulties for her on that score; also she would have
found a tireless pleasure in analyzing and discussing its problems.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (_To be Continued._)

FOOTNOTES:

[13] It is so yet--M. T.

[14] She has said it well and correctly. Humor is a subject which has
never had much interest for me. This is why I have never examined it,
nor written about it nor used it as a topic for a speech. A hundred
times it has been offered me as a topic in these past forty years, but
in no case has it attracted me.--M. T.




NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXVI.

JUNE 7, 1907.


CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XIX.

BY MARK TWAIN.


_From Susy's Biography of Me._


     _March 23, '86._--The other day was my birthday, and I had a little
     birthday party in the evening and papa acted some very funny
     charades with Mr. Gherhardt, Mr. Jesse Grant (who had come up from
     New York and was spending the evening with us) and Mr. Frank
     Warner. One of them was "on his knees" honys-sneeze. There were a
     good many other funny ones, all of which I dont remember. Mr. Grant
     was very pleasant, and began playing the charades in the most
     delightful way.


Susy's spelling has defeated me, this time. I cannot make out what
"honys-sneeze" stands for. Impromptu charades were almost a nightly
pastime of ours, from the children's earliest days--they played in them
with me when they were only five or six years old. As they increased in
years and practice their love for the sport almost amounted to a
passion, and they acted their parts with a steadily increasing ability.
At first they required much drilling; but later they were generally
ready as soon as the parts were assigned, and they acted them according
to their own devices. Their stage facility and absence of constraint and
self-consciousness in the "Prince and Pauper" was a result of their
charading practice.

At ten and twelve Susy wrote plays, and she and Daisy Warner and Clara
played them in the library or up-stairs in the school-room, with only
themselves and the servants for audience. They were of a tragic and
tremendous sort, and were performed with great energy and earnestness.
They were dramatized (freely) from English history, and in them Mary
Queen of Scots and Elizabeth had few holidays. The clothes were borrowed
from the mother's wardrobe and the gowns were longer than necessary, but
that was not regarded as a defect. In one of these plays Jean (three
years old, perhaps) was Sir Francis Bacon. She was not dressed for the
part, and did not have to say anything, but sat silent and decorous at a
tiny table and was kept busy signing death-warrants. It was a really
important office, for few entered those plays and got out of them alive.


     _March 26._--Mamma and Papa have been in New York for two or three
     days, and Miss Corey has been staying with us. They are coming home
     to-day at two o'clock.

     Papa has just begun to play chess, and he is very fond of it, so he
     has engaged to play with Mrs. Charles Warner every morning from 10
     to 12, he came down to supper last night, full of this pleasant
     prospect, but evidently with something on his mind. Finally he said
     to mamma in an appologetical tone, Susy Warner and I have a plan.

     "Well" mamma said "what now, I wonder?"

     Papa said that Susy Warner and he were going to name the chess
     after some of the old bible heroes, and then play chess on Sunday.


     _April 18, '86._--Mamma and papa Clara and Daisy have gone to New
     York to see the "Mikado." They are coming home to-night at half
     past seven.

     Last winter when Mr. Cabl