went under a bunk. There was going to be trouble; but that
     monstrous Holmes rose up, wobbling his double chins, and says he,
     'Order, gentlemen; the first man that draws, I'll lay down on him
     and smother him!' All quiet on the Potomac, you bet!

     "They were pretty how-come-you-so, by now, and they begun to blow.
     Emerson says, 'The nobbiest thing I ever wrote was Barbara
     Frietchie.' Says Longfellow, 'It don't begin with my Biglow
     Papers.' Says Holmes, 'My Thanatopsis lays over 'em both.' They
     mighty near ended in a fight. Then they wished they had some more
     company--and Mr. Emerson pointed to me and says--


     "'Is yonder squalid peasant all
     That this proud nursery could breed?'


     He was a-whetting his bowie on his boot--so I let it pass. Well,
     sir, next they took it into their heads that they would like some
     music; so they made me stand up and sing 'When Johnny Comes
     Marching Home' till I dropped--at thirteen minutes past four this
     morning. That's what I've been through, my friend. When I woke at
     seven, they were leaving, thank goodness, and Mr. Longfellow had my
     only boots on, and his'n under his arm. Says I, 'Hold on, there,
     Evangeline, what are you going to do with _them_! He says, 'Going
     to make tracks with 'em; because--


     "'Lives of great men all remind us
     We can make our lives sublime;
     And, departing, leave behind us
     Footprints on the sands of time.'


     As I said, Mr. Twain, you are the fourth in twenty-four hours--and
     I'm going to move; I ain't suited to a littery atmosphere."

     I said to the miner, "Why, my dear sir, _these_ were not the
     gracious singers to whom we and the world pay loving reverence and
     homage; these were impostors."

     The miner investigated me with a calm eye for a while; then said
     he, "Ah! impostors, were they? Are _you_?

     I did not pursue the subject, and since then I have not travelled
     on my _nom de guerre_ enough to hurt. Such was the reminiscence I
     was moved to contribute, Mr. Chairman. In my enthusiasm I may have
     exaggerated the details a little, but you will easily forgive me
     that fault, since I believe it is the first time I have ever
     deflected from perpendicular fact on an occasion like this.


What I have said to Mrs. H. is true. I did suffer during a year or two
from the deep humiliations of that episode. But at last, in 1888, in
Venice, my wife and I came across Mr. and Mrs. A. P. C., of Concord,
Massachusetts, and a friendship began then of the sort which nothing but
death terminates. The C.'s were very bright people and in every way
charming and companionable. We were together a month or two in Venice
and several months in Rome, afterwards, and one day that lamented break
of mine was mentioned. And when I was on the point of lathering those
people for bringing it to my mind when I had gotten the memory of it
almost squelched, I perceived with joy that the C.'s were indignant
about the way that my performance had been received in Boston. They
poured out their opinions most freely and frankly about the frosty
attitude of the people who were present at that performance, and about
the Boston newspapers for the position they had taken in regard to the
matter. That position was that I had been irreverent beyond belief,
beyond imagination. Very well, I had accepted that as a fact for a year
or two, and had been thoroughly miserable about it whenever I thought of
it--which was not frequently, if I could help it. Whenever I thought of
it I wondered how I ever could have been inspired to do so unholy a
thing. Well, the C.'s comforted me, but they did not persuade me to
continue to think about the unhappy episode. I resisted that. I tried to
get it out of my mind, and let it die, and I succeeded. Until Mrs. H.'s
letter came, it had been a good twenty-five years since I had thought of
that matter; and when she said that the thing was funny I wondered if
possibly she might be right. At any rate, my curiosity was aroused, and
I wrote to Boston and got the whole thing copied, as above set forth.

I vaguely remember some of the details of that gathering--dimly I can
see a hundred people--no, perhaps fifty--shadowy figures sitting at
tables feeding, ghosts now to me, and nameless forever more. I don't
know who they were, but I can very distinctly see, seated at the grand
table and facing the rest of us, Mr. Emerson, supernaturally grave,
unsmiling; Mr. Whittier, grave, lovely, his beautiful spirit shining out
of his face; Mr. Longfellow, with his silken white hair and his
benignant face; Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, flashing smiles and affection
and all good-fellowship everywhere like a rose-diamond whose facets are
being turned toward the light first one way and then another--a charming
man, and always fascinating, whether he was talking or whether he was
sitting still (what _he_ would call still, but what would be more or
lees motion to other people). I can see those figures with entire
distinctness across this abyss of time.
