 of ruined
enterprise: which like the lightning's flash is born, and dies, and
perishes, ere the voice of him who sees can cry, BEHOLD! BEHOLD!! You
may trust to what I say, no power shall tempt me to betray confidence.
Suffer me to add one word more.


     I will soothe thee, in all thy grief,

     Beside the gloomy river;

     And though thy love may yet be brief;

     Mine is fixed forever.


Receive the deepest emotions of my heart for thy constant love, and
may the power of inspiration by thy guide, thy portion, and thy all. In
great haste,

Yours faithfully,

Ambulinia.



"I now take my leave of you, sweet girl," said Louisa, "sincerely
wishing you success on Sabbath next." When Ambulinia's letter was handed
to Elfonzo, he perused it without doubting its contents. Louisa charged
him to make but few confidants; but like most young men who happened to
win the heart of a beautiful girl, he was so elated with the idea that
he felt as a commanding general on parade, who had confidence in all,
consequently gave orders to all. The appointed Sabbath, with a delicious
breeze and cloudless sky, made its appearance. The people gathered in
crowds to the church--the streets were filled with neighboring citizens,
all marching to the house of worship. It is entirely useless for me
to attempt to describe the feelings of Elfonzo and Ambulinia, who were
silently watching the movements of the multitude, apparently counting
them as then entered the house of God, looking for the last one to
darken the door. The impatience and anxiety with which they waited,
and the bliss they anticipated on the eventful day, is altogether
indescribable. Those that have been so fortunate as to embark in such a
noble enterprise know all its realities; and those who have not had this
inestimable privilege will have to taste its sweets before they can tell
to others its joys, its comforts, and its Heaven-born worth. Immediately
after Ambulinia had assisted the family off to church, she took
advantage of that opportunity to make good her promises. She left a home
of enjoyment to be wedded to one whose love had been justifiable. A few
short steps brought her to the presence of Louisa, who urged her to make
good use of her time, and not to delay a moment, but to go with her to
her brother's house, where Elfonzo would forever make her happy. With
lively speed, and yet a graceful air, she entered the door and found
herself protected by the champion of her confidence. The necessary
arrangements were fast making to have the two lovers united--everything
was in readiness except the parson; and as they are generally very
sanctimonious on such occasions, the news got to the parents of
Ambulinia before the everlasting knot was tied, and they both came
running, with uplifted hands and injured feelings, to arrest their
daughter from an unguarded and hasty resolution. Elfonzo desired to
maintain his ground, but Ambulinia thought it best for him to leave, to
prepare for a greater contest. He accordingly obeyed, as it would have
been a vain endeavor for him to have battled against a man who was armed
with deadly weapons; and besides, he could not resist the request of
such a pure heart. Ambulinia concealed herself in the upper story of
the house, fearing the rebuke of her father; the door was locked, and no
chastisement was now expected. Esquire Valeer, whose pride was already
touched, resolved to preserve the dignity of his family. He entered
the house almost exhausted, looking wildly for Ambulinia. "Amazed and
astonished indeed I am," said he, "at a people who call themselves
civilized, to allow such behavior as this. Ambulinia, Ambulinia!"
he cried, "come to the calls of your first, your best, and your only
friend. I appeal to you, sir," turning to the gentleman of the house,
"to know where Ambulinia has gone, or where is she?" "Do you mean
to insult me, sir, in my own house?" inquired the gentleman. "I will
burst," said Mr. V., "asunder every door in your dwelling, in search of
my daughter, if you do not speak quickly, and tell me where she is.
I care nothing about that outcast rubbish of creation, that mean,
low-lived Elfonzo, if I can but obtain Ambulinia. Are you not going to
open this door?" said he. "By the Eternal that made Heaven and earth!
I will go about the work instantly, if this is not done!" The confused
citizens gathered from all parts of the village, to know the cause of
this commotion. Some rushed into the house; the door that was locked
flew open, and there stood Ambulinia, weeping. "Father, be still," said
she, "and I will follow thee home." But the agitated man seized her, and
bore her off through the gazing multitude. "Father!" she exclaimed, "I
humbly beg your pardon--I will be dutiful--I will obey thy commands.
Let the sixteen years I have lived in obedience to thee by my future
security." "I don't like to be always giving credit, when the old score
is not paid up, madam," said the father. The mother followed almost in a
state of derangement, crying and imploring her to think beforehand, and
ask advice from experienced persons, and they would te