ught to have done. He told Aunt Susy, Clara and I,
     about it but mamma was not to see it or hear any thing about it
     till it came out. He gave it to Aunt Susy to read, and after Clara
     and I had gone up to get ready for bed he brought it up for us to
     read. He told what he thought the father ought to have done by
     telling what mamma would have done. The article was a beautiful
     tribute to mamma and every word in it true. But still in writing
     about mamma he partly forgot that the article was going to be
     published, I think, and expressed himself more fully than he would
     do the second time he wrote it; I think the article has done and
     will do a great deal of good, and I think it would have been
     perfect for the family and friend's enjoyment, but a little bit too
     private to have been published as it was. And Papa felt so too,
     because the very next day or a few days after, he went down to New
     York to see if he couldn't get it back before it was published but
     it was too late, and he had to return without it. When the
     Christian Union reached the farm and papa's article in it all ready
     and waiting to be read to mamma papa hadn't the courage to show it
     to her (for he knew she wouldn't like it at all) at first, and he
     didn't but he might have let it go and never let her see it, but
     finally he gave his consent to her seeing it, and told Clara and I
     we could take it to her, which we did, with tardiness, and we all
     stood around mamma while she read it, all wondering what she would
     say and think about it.

     She was too much surprised, (and pleased privately, too) to say
     much at first, but as we all expected publicly, (or rather when she
     remembered that this article was to be read by every one that took
     the Christian Union) she was rather shocked and a little
     displeased.

     Clara and I had great fun the night papa gave it to us to read and
     then hide, so mamma couldn't see it, for just as we were in the
     midst of reading it mamma appeared, papa following anxiously and
     asked why we were not in bed? then a scuffle ensued for we told her
     it was a secret and tried to hide it; but she chased us wherever we
     went, till she thought it was time for us to go to bed, then she
     surendered and left us to tuck it under Clara's matress.

     A little while after the article was published letters began to
     come in to papa crittisizing it, there were some very pleasant ones
     but a few very disagreable. One of these, the very worst, mamma got
     hold of and read, to papa's great regret, it was full of the most
     disagreble things, and so very enoying to papa that he for a time
     felt he must do something to show the author of it his great
     displeasure at being so insulted. But he finally decided not to,
     because he felt the man had some cause for feeling enoyed at, for
     papa had spoken of him, (he was the baby's father) rather
     slightingly in his Christian Union Article.

     After all this, papa and mamma both wished I think they might never
     hear or be spoken to on the subject of the Christian Union article,
     and whenever any has spoken to me and told me "How much they did
     enjoy my father's article in the Christian Union" I almost laughed
     in their faces when I remembered what a great variety of oppinions
     had been expressed upon the subject of the Christian Union article
     of papa's.

     The article was written in July or August and just the other day
     papa received quite a bright letter from a gentleman who has read
     the C. U. article and gave his opinion of it in these words.


It is missing. She probably put the letter between the leaves of the
Biography and it got lost out. She threw away the hostile letters, but
tried to keep the pleasantest one for her book; surely there has been no
kindlier biographer than this one. Yet to a quite creditable degree she
is loyal to the responsibilities of her position as historian--not
eulogist--and honorably gives me a quiet prod now and then. But how
many, many, many she has withheld that I deserved! I could prize them
now; there would be no acid in her words, and it is loss to me that she
did not set them all down. Oh, Susy, you sweet little biographer, you
break my old heart with your gentle charities!

I think a great deal of her work. Her canvases are on their easels, and
her brush flies about in a care-free and random way, delivering a dash
here, a dash there and another yonder, and one might suppose that there
would be no definite result; on the contrary I think that an intelligent
reader of her little book must find that by the time he has finished it
he has somehow accumulated a pretty clear and nicely shaded idea of the
several members of this family--including Susy herself--and that the
random dashes on the canvases have developed into portraits. I feel that
my own portrait, with some of the defects fined down and others left
out, is here; and I am sure that any who knew the mo