hipping. I think the Record says so, but if it does it is because the
Record is incomplete. Whipping was indeed tried, and was faithfully kept
up during two or three weeks, but the results were merely temporary; the
reforms achieved were discouragingly brief.

Fortunately for Susy, an incident presently occurred which put a
complete stop to all the mother's efforts in the direction of reform.
This incident was the chance discovery in Darwin of a passage which said
that when a child exhibits a sudden and unaccountable disposition to
forsake the truth and restrict itself to lying, the explanation must be
sought away back in the past; that an ancestor of the child had had the
same disease, at the same tender age; that it was irremovable by
persuasion or punishment, and that it had ceased as suddenly and as
mysteriously as it had come, when it had run its appointed course. I
think Mr. Darwin said that nothing was necessary but to leave the matter
alone and let the malady have its way and perish by the statute of
limitations.

We had confidence in Darwin, and after that day Susy was relieved of our
reformatory persecutions. She went on lying without let or hindrance
during several months, or a year; then the lying suddenly ceased, and
she became as conscientiously and exactingly truthful as she had been
before the attack, and she remained so to the end of her life.

The paragraph in the Record to which I have been leading up is in my
handwriting, and is of a date so long posterior to the time of the lying
malady that she had evidently forgotten that truth-speaking had ever had
any difficulties for her.


     Mama was speaking of a servant who had been pretty unveracious, but
     was now "trying to tell the truth." Susy was a good deal surprised,
     and said she shouldn't think anybody would have to _try_ to tell
     the truth.


In the Record the children's acts and speeches quite definitely define
their characters. Susy's indicated the presence of mentality--
thought--and they were generally marked by gravity. She was timid, on
her physical side, but had an abundance of moral courage. Clara was
sturdy, independent, orderly, practical, persistent, plucky--just a
little animal, and very satisfactory. Charles Dudley Warner said Susy
was made of mind, and Clara of matter.

When Motley, the kitten, died, some one said that the thoughts of the
two children need not be inquired into, they could be divined: that Susy
was wondering if this was the _end_ of Motley, and had his life been
worth while; whereas Clara was merely interested in seeing to it that
there should be a creditable funeral.

In those days Susy was a dreamer, a thinker, a poet and philosopher, and
Clara--well, Clara wasn't. In after-years a passion for music developed
the latent spirituality and intellectuality in Clara, and her
practicality took second and, in fact, even third place. Jean was from
the beginning orderly, steady, diligent, persistent; and remains so. She
picked up languages easily, and kept them.


     _Susy aged eleven, Jean three._--Susy said the other day when she
     saw Jean bringing a cat to me of her own motion, "Jean has found
     out already that mamma loves morals and papa loves cats."


It is another of Susy's remorselessly sound verdicts.

As a child, Jean neglected my books. When she was nine years old Will
Gillette invited her and the rest of us to a dinner at the Murray Hill
Hotel in New York, in order that we might get acquainted with Mrs.
Leslie and her daughters. Elsie Leslie was nine years old, and was a
great celebrity on the stage. Jean was astonished and awed to see that
little slip of a thing sit up at table and take part in the conversation
of the grown people, capably and with ease and tranquillity. Poor Jean
was obliged to keep still, for the subjects discussed never happened to
hit her level, but at last the talk fell within her limit and she had
her chance to contribute to it. "Tom Sawyer" was mentioned. Jean spoke
gratefully up and said,

"I know who wrote that book--Harriet Beecher Stowe!"


     One evening Susy had prayed, Clara was curled up for sleep; she was
     reminded that it was her turn to pray now. She laid "Oh! one's
     enough," and dropped off to slumber.

     _Clara five years old._--We were in Germany. The nurse, Rosa, was
     not allowed to speak to the children otherwise than in German.
     Clara grew very tired of it; by and by the little creature's
     patience was exhausted, and she said "Aunt Clara, I wish God had
     made Rosa in English."

     _Clara four years old, Susy six._--This morning when Clara
     discovered that this is my birthday, she was greatly troubled
     because she had provided no gift for me, and repeated her sorrow
     several times. Finally she went musing to the nursery and presently
     returned with her newest and dearest treasure, a large toy horse,
     and said, "You shall have this horse for your birthday, papa."

     I accepted it with many thanks. After an hour she was racing up and
     down the room with the horse, when Susy said,

     "Why Clara, yo