t be perfectly sure, because I haven't the notes by me; but
I think it goes something like this: te-rolly-loll-loll, loll
lolly-loll-loll, O tolly-loll-loll-LEE-LY-LI-I-do! And then REPEAT, you
know.

Pause.

Yes, I think it IS very sweet--and very solemn and impressive, if you
get the andantino and the pianissimo right.

Pause.

Oh, gum-drops, gum-drops! But I never allow them to eat striped candy.
And of course they CAN'T, till they get their teeth, anyway.

Pause.

WHAT?

Pause.

Oh, not in the least--go right on. He's here writing--it doesn't bother
HIM.

Pause.

Very well, I'll come if I can. (ASIDE.) Dear me, how it does tire a
person's arm to hold this thing up so long! I wish she'd--

Pause.

Oh no, not at all; I LIKE to talk--but I'm afraid I'm keeping you from
your affairs.

Pause.

Visitors?

Pause.

No, we never use butter on them.

Pause.

Yes, that is a very good way; but all the cook-books say they are
very unhealthy when they are out of season. And HE doesn't like them,
anyway--especially canned.

Pause.

Oh, I think that is too high for them; we have never paid over fifty
cents a bunch.

Pause.

MUST you go? Well, GOOD-by.

Pause.

Yes, I think so. GOOD-by.

Pause.

Four o'clock, then--I'll be ready. GOOD-by.

Pause.

Thank you ever so much. GOOD-by.

Pause.

Oh, not at all!--just as fresh--WHICH? Oh, I'm glad to hear you say
that. GOOD-by.

(Hangs up the telephone and says, "Oh, it DOES tire a person's arm so!")

A man delivers a single brutal "Good-by," and that is the end of it.
Not so with the gentle sex--I say it in their praise; they cannot abide
abruptness.






EDWARD MILLS AND GEORGE BENTON: A TALE



These two were distantly related to each other--seventh cousins, or
something of that sort. While still babies they became orphans, and were
adopted by the Brants, a childless couple, who quickly grew very fond
of them. The Brants were always saying: "Be pure, honest, sober,
industrious, and considerate of others, and success in life is assured."
The children heard this repeated some thousands of times before they
understood it; they could repeat it themselves long before they could
say the Lord's Prayer; it was painted over the nursery door, and was
about the first thing they learned to read. It was destined to be the
unswerving rule of Edward Mills's life. Sometimes the Brants changed
the wording a little, and said: "Be pure, honest, sober, industrious,
considerate, and you will never lack friends."

Baby Mills was a comfort to everybody about him. When he wanted candy
and could not have it, he listened to reason, and contented himself
without it. When Baby Benton wanted candy, he cried for it until he got
it. Baby Mills took care of his toys; Baby Benton always destroyed his
in a very brief time, and then made himself so insistently disagreeable
that, in order to have peace in the house, little Edward was persuaded
to yield up his play-things to him.

When the children were a little older, Georgie became a heavy expense
in one respect: he took no care of his clothes; consequently, he shone
frequently in new ones, with was not the case with Eddie. The boys
grew apace. Eddie was an increasing comfort, Georgie an increasing
solicitude. It was always sufficient to say, in answer to Eddie's
petitions, "I would rather you would not do it"--meaning swimming,
skating, picnicking, berrying, circusing, and all sorts of things which
boys delight in. But NO answer was sufficient for Georgie; he had to
be humored in his desires, or he would carry them with a high hand.
Naturally, no boy got more swimming skating, berrying, and so forth than
he; no body ever had a better time. The good Brants did not allow the
boys to play out after nine in summer evenings; they were sent to bed at
that hour; Eddie honorably remained, but Georgie usually slipped out
of the window toward ten, and enjoyed himself until midnight. It seemed
impossible to break Georgie of this bad habit, but the Brants managed
it at last by hiring him, with apples and marbles, to stay in. The good
Brants gave all their time and attention to vain endeavors to regulate
Georgie; they said, with grateful tears in their eyes, that Eddie needed
no efforts of theirs, he was so good, so considerate, and in all ways so
perfect.

By and by the boys were big enough to work, so they were apprenticed to
a trade: Edward went voluntarily; George was coaxed and bribed. Edward
worked hard and faithfully, and ceased to be an expense to the good
Brants; they praised him, so did his master; but George ran away, and it
cost Mr. Brant both money and trouble to hunt him up and get him back.
By and by he ran away again--more money and more trouble. He ran away
a third time--and stole a few things to carry with him. Trouble and
expense for Mr. Brant once more; and, besides, it was with the greatest
difficulty that he succeeded in persuading the master to let the youth
go unprosecuted for the theft.

Edward worked steadily along, and in time became a full partner in his
master's business. George did not improve; he kept the loving hearts of
his aged benefactors full of troubl