there went a light that
told a secret to another pair of eyes there and got a secret in return.
In just that infinitely small fraction of a second those two great
confessions were made, received, and perfectly understood. All anxiety,
apprehension, uncertainty, vanished out of these young people's hearts
and left them filled with a great peace.

Sellers had had the most confident faith that with the new reinforcement
victory would be at this last moment snatched from the jaws of defeat,
but it was an error. The talk was as stubbornly disjointed as ever. He
was proud of Gwendolen, and liked to show her off, even against Miss
Belle Thompson, and here had been a great opportunity, and what had she
made of it? He felt a good deal put out. It vexed him to think that
this Englishman, with the traveling Briton's everlasting disposition
to generalize whole mountain ranges from single sample-grains of
sand, would jump to the conclusion that American girls were as dumb as
himself--generalizing the whole tribe from this single sample and she at
her poorest, there being nothing at that table to inspire her, give her
a start, keep her from going to sleep. He made up his mind that for the
honor of the country he would bring these two together again over the
social board before long. There would be a different result another
time, he judged. He said to himself, with a deep sense of injury, "He'll
put in his diary--they all keep diaries--he'll put in his diary that she
was miraculously uninteresting--dear, dear, but wasn't she! I never saw
the like--and yet looking as beautiful as Satan, too--and couldn't seem
to do anything but paw bread crumbs, and pick flowers to pieces, and
look fidgety. And it isn't any better here in the Hall of Audience. I've
had enough; I'll haul down my flag--the others may fight it out if they
want to."

He shook hands all around and went off to do some work which he said was
pressing. The idolaters were the width of the room apart; and apparently
unconscious of each other's presence. The distance got shortened a
little, now. Very soon the mother withdrew. The distance narrowed again.
Tracy stood before a chromo of some Ohio politician which had been
retouched and chain-mailed for a crusading Rossmore, and Gwendolen was
sitting on the sofa not far from his elbow artificially absorbed in
examining a photograph album that hadn't any photographs in it.

The "Senator" still lingered. He was sorry for the young people; it had
been a dull evening for them. In the goodness of his heart he tried
to make it pleasant for them now; tried to remove the ill impression
necessarily left by the general defeat; tried to be chatty, even tried
to be gay. But the responses were sickly, there was no starting any
enthusiasm; he would give it up and quit--it was a day specially picked
out and consecrated to failures.

But when Gwendolen rose up promptly and smiled a glad smile and said
with thankfulness and blessing, "Must you go?" it seemed cruel to
desert, and he sat down again.

He was about to begin a remark when--when he didn't. We have all been
there. He didn't know how he knew his concluding to stay longer had been
a mistake, he merely knew it; and knew it for dead certain, too. And so
he bade goodnight, and went mooning out, wondering what he could have
done that changed the atmosphere that way. As the door closed behind him
those two were standing side by side, looking at that door--looking at
it in a waiting, second-counting, but deeply grateful kind of way. And
the instant it closed they flung their arms about each other's necks,
and there, heart to heart and lip to lip--

"Oh, my God, she's kissing it!"

Nobody heard this remark, because Hawkins, who bred it, only thought it,
he didn't utter it. He had turned, the moment he had closed the door,
and had pushed it open a little, intending to re-enter and ask what
ill-advised thing he had done or said, and apologize for it. But he
didn't re-enter; he staggered off stunned, terrified, distressed.




CHAPTER XXII.

Five minutes later he was sitting in his room, with his head bowed
within the circle of his arms, on the table--final attitude of grief and
despair. His tears were flowing fast, and now and then a sob broke upon
the stillness. Presently he said:

"I knew her when she was a little child and used to climb about my
knees; I love her as I love my own, and now--oh, poor thing, poor
thing, I cannot bear it!--she's gone and lost her heart to this mangy
materializee! Why didn't we see that that might happen? But how could
we? Nobody could; nobody could ever have dreamed of such a thing. You
couldn't expect a person would fall in love with a wax-work. And this
one doesn't even amount to that."

He went on grieving to himself, and now and then giving voice to his
lamentations.

"It's done, oh, it's done, and there's no help for it, no undoing
the miserable business. If I had the nerve, I would kill it. But
that wouldn't do any good. She loves it; she thinks it's genuine and
authentic. If she lost it she would grieve for it just as she would
for a real person. And who's to break