 and which was water. In the pauses we waited; started again whenever
there was a good bridge of ice; paused again when we came to naked water
and waited in distress until a floating vast cake should bridge that
place. It took us an hour to make the trip--a trip which we made in a
misery of apprehension all the time. But at last we arrived within a
very brief distance of the shore. We waited again; there was another
place that needed bridging. All about us the ice was plunging and
grinding along and piling itself up in mountains on the shore, and the
dangers were increasing, not diminishing. We grew very impatient to get
to solid ground, so we started too early and went springing from cake to
cake. Tom made a miscalculation, and fell short. He got a bitter bath,
but he was so close to shore that he only had to swim a stroke or
two--then his feet struck hard bottom and he crawled out. I arrived a
little later, without accident. We had been in a drenching perspiration,
and Tom's bath was a disaster for him. He took to his bed sick, and had
a procession of diseases. The closing one was scarlet-fever, and he came
out of it stone deaf. Within a year or two speech departed, of course.
But some years later he was taught to talk, after a fashion--one
couldn't always make out what it was he was trying to say. Of course he
could not modulate his voice, since he couldn't hear himself talk. When
he supposed he was talking low and confidentially, you could hear him in
Illinois.

Four years ago (1902) I was invited by the University of Missouri to
come out there and receive the honorary degree of LL.D. I took that
opportunity to spend a week in Hannibal--a city now, a village in my
day. It had been fifty-three years since Tom Nash and I had had that
adventure. When I was at the railway station ready to leave Hannibal,
there was a crowd of citizens there. I saw Tom Nash approaching me
across a vacant space, and I walked toward him, for I recognized him at
once. He was old and white-headed, but the boy of fifteen was still
visible in him. He came up to me, made a trumpet of his hands at my ear,
nodded his head toward the citizens and said confidentially--in a yell
like a fog-horn--

"Same damned fools, Sam!"

_From Susy's Biography._


     Papa was about twenty years old when he went on the Mississippi as
     a pilot. Just before he started on his tripp Grandma Clemens asked
     him to promise her on the Bible not to touch intoxicating liquors
     or swear, and he said "Yes, mother, I will," and he kept that
     promise seven years when Grandma released him from it.


Under the inspiring influence of that remark, what a garden of forgotten
reforms rises upon my sight!

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (_To be Continued._)




NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCIII.

NOVEMBER 16, 1906.


CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--VI.

BY MARK TWAIN.


_From Susy's Biography_.


     Papa made arrangements to read at Vassar College the 1st of May,
     and I went with him. We went by way of New York City. Mamma went
     with us to New York and stayed two days to do some shopping. We
     started Tuesday, at 1/2 past two o'clock in the afternoon, and
     reached New York about 1/4 past six. Papa went right up to General
     Grants from the station and mamma and I went to the Everett House.
     Aunt Clara came to supper with us up in our room....

     We and Aunt Clara were going were going to the theatre right after
     supper, and we expected papa to take us there and to come home as
     early as he could. But we got through dinner and he didn't come,
     and didn't come, and mamma got more perplexed and worried, but at
     last we thought we would have to go without him. So we put on our
     things and started down stairs but before we'd goten half down we
     met papa coming up with a great bunch of roses in his hand. He
     explained that the reason he was so late was that his watch stopped
     and he didn't notice and kept thinking it an hour earlier than it
     really was. The roses he carried were some Col. Fred Grant sent to
     mamma. We went to the theatre and enjoyed "Adonis" [word illegible]
     acted very much. We reached home about 1/2 past eleven o'clock and
     went right to bed. Wednesday morning we got up rather late and had
     breakfast about 1/2 past nine o'clock. After breakfast mamma went
     out shopping and papa and I went to see papa's agent about some
     business matters. After papa had gotten through talking to Cousin
     Charlie, [Webster] papa's agent, we went to get a friend of papa's,
     Major Pond, to go and see a Dog Show with us. Then we went to see
     the dogs with Major Pond and we had a delightful time seeing so
     many dogs together; when we got through seeing the dogs papa
     thought he would go and see General Grant and I went with him--this
     was April 29, 1885. Papa went up into General Grant's room and he
     took me with him, I felt greatly honored and delighted when papa
     took me into General Grant's room and let me 