_
     pick up the handkerchief, if he does he gets no punishment. I tell
     him to do a thing if he disobeys me he is punished for so doing,
     but not forced to obey me afterwards.

     When Clara and I had been very nauty or were being very nauty, the
     nurse would go and call Mamma and she would appear suddenly and
     look at us (she had a way of looking at us when she was displeased
     as if she could see right through us) till we were ready to sink
     through the floor from embarasment, and total absence of knowing
     what to say. This look was usually followed with "Clara" or "Susy
     what do you mean by this? do you want to come to the bath-room with
     me?" Then followed the climax for Clara and I both new only too
     well what going to the bath-room meant.

     But mamma's first and foremost object was to make the child
     understand that he is being punished for _his_ sake, and because
     the mother so loves him that she cannot allow him to do wrong; also
     that it is as hard for her to punish him as for him to be punished
     and even harder. Mamma never allowed herself to punish us when she
     was angry with us she never struck us because she was enoyed at us
     and felt like striking us if we had been nauty and had enoyed her,
     so that she thought she felt or would show the least bit of temper
     toward us while punnishing us, she always postponed the punishment
     until _she_ was no more chafed by our behavior. She never humored
     herself by striking or punishing us because or while she was the
     least bit enoyed with us.

     Our very worst nautinesses were punished by being taken to the
     bath-room and being whipped by the paper cutter. But after the
     whipping was over, mamma did not allow us to leave her until we
     were perfectly happy, and perfectly understood why we had been
     whipped. I never remember having felt the least bit bitterly toward
     mamma for punishing me. I always felt I had deserved my punishment,
     and was much happier for having received it. For after mamma had
     punished us and shown her displeasure, she showed no signs of
     further displeasure, but acted as if we had not displeased her in
     any way.


Ordinary punishments answered very well for Susy. She was a thinker, and
would reason out the purpose of them, apply the lesson, and achieve the
reform required. But it was much less easy to devise punishments that
would reform Clara. This was because she was a philosopher who was
always turning her attention to finding something good and satisfactory
and entertaining in everything that came her way; consequently it was
sometimes pretty discouraging to the troubled mother to find that after
all her pains and thought in inventing what she meant to be a severe and
reform-compelling punishment, the child had entirely missed the
severities through her native disposition to get interest and pleasure
out of them as novelties. The mother, in her anxiety to find a penalty
that would take sharp hold and do its work effectively, at last
resorted, with a sore heart, and with a reproachful conscience, to that
punishment which the incorrigible criminal in the penitentiary dreads
above all the other punitive miseries which the warden inflicts upon him
for his good--solitary confinement in the dark chamber. The grieved and
worried mother shut Clara up in a very small clothes-closet and went
away and left her there--for fifteen minutes--it was all that the
mother-heart could endure. Then she came softly back and
listened--listened for the sobs, but there weren't any; there were
muffled and inarticulate sounds, but they could not be construed into
sobs. The mother waited half an hour longer; by that time she was
suffering so intensely with sorrow and compassion for the little
prisoner that she was not able to wait any longer for the distressed
sounds which she had counted upon to inform her when there had been
punishment enough and the reform accomplished. She opened the closet to
set the prisoner free and take her back into her loving favor and
forgiveness, but the result was not the one expected. The captive had
manufactured a fairy cavern out of the closet, and friendly fairies out
of the clothes hanging from the hooks, and was having a most sinful and
unrepentant good time, and requested permission to spend the rest of the
day there!

_From Susy's Biography of Me._


     But Mamma's oppinions and ideas upon the subject of bringing up
     children has always been more or less of a joke in our family,
     perticularly since Papa's article in the "Christian Union," and I
     am sure Clara and I have related the history of our old family
     paper-cutter, our punishments and privations with rather more pride
     and triumph than any other sentiment, because of Mamma's way of
     rearing us.

     When the article "What ought he to have done?" came out Mamma read
     it, and was very much interested in it. And when papa heard that
     she had read it he went to work and secretly wrote his opinion of
     what the father o