ero-worship were harder still to
endure. He felt degraded, but he did not allow himself to analyze the
reasons why, too closely. He was content to satisfy himself with
the suggestion that he looked upon himself as degraded by the public
spectacle which he had made of himself, fighting on a tin roof, for the
delectation of everybody a block or two around. But he wasn't entirely
satisfied with that explanation of it. Once he went a little too far
and wrote in his diary that his case was worse than that of the prodigal
son. He said the prodigal son merely fed swine, he didn't have to chum
with them. But he struck that out, and said "All men are equal. I will
not disown my principles. These men are as good as I am."

Tracy was become popular on the lower floors also. Everybody was
grateful for Allen's reduction to the ranks, and for his transformation
from a doer of outrages to a mere threatener of them. The young girls,
of whom there were half a dozen, showed many attentions to Tracy,
particularly that boarding house pet Hattie, the landlady's daughter.
She said to him, very sweetly,

"I think you're ever so nice."

And when he said, "I'm glad you think so, Miss Hattie," she said, still
more sweetly,

"Don't call me Miss Hattie--call me Puss."

Ah, here was promotion! He had struck the summit. There were no higher
heights to climb in that boarding house. His popularity was complete.

In the presence of people, Tracy showed a tranquil outside, but his
heart was being eaten out of him by distress and despair.

In a little while he should be out of money, and then what should he do?
He wished, now, that he had borrowed a little more liberally from that
stranger's store. He found it impossible to sleep. A single torturing,
terrifying thought went racking round and round in his head, wearing a
groove in his brain: What should he do--What was to become of him? And
along with it began to intrude a something presently which was very like
a wish that he had not joined the great and noble ranks of martyrdom,
but had stayed at home and been content to be merely an earl and nothing
better, with nothing more to do in this world of a useful sort than an
earl finds to do. But he smothered that part of his thought as well as
he could; he made every effort to drive it away, and with fair success,
but he couldn't keep it from intruding a little now and then, and when
it intruded it came suddenly and nipped him like a bite, a sting, a
burn. He recognized that thought by the peculiar sharpness of its pang.
The others were painful enough, but that one cut to the quick when
it came. Night after night he lay tossing to the music of the hideous
snoring of the honest bread-winners until two and three o'clock in the
morning, then got up and took refuge on the roof, where he sometimes got
a nap and sometimes failed entirely. His appetite was leaving him and
the zest of life was going along with it. Finally, one day, being near
the imminent verge of total discouragement, he said to himself--and took
occasion to blush privately when he said it, "If my father knew what my
American name is,--he--well, my duty to my father rather requires that
I furnish him my name. I have no right to make his days and nights
unhappy, I can do enough unhappiness for the family all by myself.
Really he ought to know what my American name is." He thought over it a
while and framed a cablegram in his mind to this effect:

"My American name is Howard Tracy."

That wouldn't be suggesting anything. His father could understand that
as he chose, and doubtless he would understand it as it was meant, as
a dutiful and affectionate desire on the part of a son to make his old
father happy for a moment. Continuing his train of thought, Tracy said
to himself, "Ah, but if he should cable me to come home! I--I--couldn't
do that--I mustn't do that. I've started out on a mission, and I
mustn't turn my back on it in cowardice. No, no, I couldn't go home,
at--at--least I shouldn't want to go home." After a reflective pause:
"Well, maybe--perhaps--it would be my duty to go in the circumstances;
he's very old and he does need me by him to stay his footsteps down the
long hill that inclines westward toward the sunset of his life. Well,
I'll think about that. Yes, of course it wouldn't be right to stay here.
If I--well, perhaps I could just drop him a line and put it off a little
while and satisfy him in that way. It would be--well, it would mar
everything to have him require me to come instantly." Another reflective
pause--then: "And yet if he should do that I don't know but--oh, dear
me--home! how good it sounds! and a body is excusable for wanting to see
his home again, now and then, anyway."

He went to one of the telegraph offices in the avenue and got the first
end of what Barrow called the "usual Washington courtesy," where "they
treat you as a tramp until they find out you're a congressman, and then
they slobber all over you." There was a boy of seventeen on duty there,
tying his shoe. He had his foot on a chair and his back turned toward
the wicket. He glanced over his shoulder, took Tracy's