ess at all. I have accomplished
my dearest wish, I am a man among men, on an equal footing with Tom,
Dick and Harry, and yet it isn't just exactly what I thought it was
going to be. I--I miss home. Am obliged to say I am homesick. Another
thing--and this is a confession--a reluctant one, but I will make it:
The thing I miss most and most severely, is the respect, the deference,
with which I was treated all my life in England, and which seems to be
somehow necessary to me. I get along very well without the luxury and
the wealth and the sort of society I've been accustomed to, but I do
miss the respect and can't seem to get reconciled to the absence of it.
There is respect, there is deference here, but it doesn't fall to my
share. It is lavished on two men. One of them is a portly man of middle
age who is a retired plumber. Everybody is pleased to have that man's
notice. He's full of pomp and circumstance and self complacency and bad
grammar, and at table he is Sir Oracle and when he opens his mouth not
any dog in the kennel barks. The other person is a policeman at the
capitol-building. He represents the government. The deference paid to
these two men is not so very far short of that paid to an earl in
England, though the method of it differs. Not so much courtliness, but
the deference is all there.

Yes, and there is obsequiousness, too.

It does rather look as if in a republic where all are free and equal,
prosperity and position constitute rank.




CHAPTER XIII.

The days drifted by, and they grew ever more dreary. For Barrow's
efforts to find work for Tracy were unavailing. Always the first
question asked was, "What Union do you belong to?"

Tracy was obliged to reply that he didn't belong to any trade-union.

"Very well, then, it's impossible to employ you. My men wouldn't stay
with me if I should employ a 'scab,' or 'rat,'" or whatever the phrase
was.

Finally, Tracy had a happy thought. He said, "Why the thing for me to
do, of course, is to join a trade-union."

"Yes," Barrow said, "that is the thing for you to do--if you can."

"If I can? Is it difficult?"

"Well, Yes," Barrow said, "it's sometimes difficult--in fact, very
difficult. But you can try, and of course it will be best to try."

Therefore Tracy tried; but he did not succeed. He was refused admission
with a good deal of promptness, and was advised to go back home, where
he belonged, not come here taking honest men's bread out of their
mouths. Tracy began to realize that the situation was desperate, and the
thought made him cold to the marrow. He said to himself, "So there is
an aristocracy of position here, and an aristocracy of prosperity, and
apparently there is also an aristocracy of the ins as opposed to the
outs, and I am with the outs. So the ranks grow daily, here. Plainly
there are all kinds of castes here and only one that I belong to, the
outcasts." But he couldn't even smile at his small joke, although he
was obliged to confess that he had a rather good opinion of it. He was
feeling so defeated and miserable by this time that he could no longer
look with philosophical complacency on the horseplay of the young
fellows in the upper rooms at night. At first it had been pleasant to
see them unbend and have a good time after having so well earned it by
the labors of the day, but now it all rasped upon his feelings and his
dignity. He lost patience with the spectacle. When they were feeling
good, they shouted, they scuffled, they sang songs, they romped about
the place like cattle, and they generally wound up with a pillow fight,
in which they banged each other over the head, and threw the pillows in
all directions, and every now and then he got a buffet himself; and they
were always inviting him to join in. They called him "Johnny Bull," and
invited him with excessive familiarity to take a hand. At first he had
endured all this with good nature, but latterly he had shown by his
manner that it was distinctly distasteful to him, and very soon he saw a
change in the manner of these young people toward him. They were souring
on him as they would have expressed it in their language. He had never
been what might be called popular. That was hardly the phrase for it; he
had merely been liked, but now dislike for him was growing. His case
was not helped by the fact that he was out of luck, couldn't get work,
didn't belong to a union, and couldn't gain admission to one. He got a
good many slights of that small ill-defined sort that you can't quite
put your finger on, and it was manifest that there was only one thing
which protected him from open insult, and that was his muscle. These
young people had seen him exercising, mornings, after his cold sponge
bath, and they had perceived by his performance and the build of his
body, that he was athletic, and also versed in boxing. He felt pretty
naked now, recognizing that he was shorn of all respect except respect
for his fists. One night when he entered his room he found about a
dozen of the young fellows there carrying on a very lively conversation
punctuated with horse-laughter. The talking ceased instantly, and t