y, by the aid of Divine Providence," answered Louisa,
"endeavor to break those slavish chains that bind the richest of prizes;
though allow me, Major, to entreat you to use no harsh means on this
important occasion; take a decided stand, and write freely to Ambulinia
upon this subject, and I will see that no intervening cause hinders its
passage to her. God alone will save a mourning people. Now is the day
and now is the hour to obey a command of such valuable worth." The Major
felt himself grow stronger after this short interview with Louisa. He
felt as if he could whip his weight in wildcats--he knew he was master
of his own feelings, and could now write a letter that would bring this
litigation to AN ISSUE.



Cumming, January 24, 1844.

Dear Ambulinia--

We have now reached the most trying moment of our lives; we are pledged
not to forsake our trust; we have waited for a favorable hour to
come, thinking your friends would settle the matter agreeably among
themselves, and finally be reconciled to our marriage; but as I have
waited in vain, and looked in vain, I have determined in my own mind to
make a proposition to you, though you may think it not in accord with
your station, or compatible with your rank; yet, "sub loc signo
vinces." You know I cannot resume my visits, in consequence of the utter
hostility that your father has to me; therefore the consummation of
our union will have to be sought for in a more sublime sphere, at the
residence of a respectable friend of this village. You cannot have
an scruples upon this mode of proceeding, if you will but remember it
emanates from one who loves you better than his own life--who is more
than anxious to bid you welcome to a new and happy home. Your warmest
associates say come; the talented, the learned, the wise, and the
experienced say come;--all these with their friends say, come. Viewing
these, with many other inducements, I flatter myself that you will come
to the embraces of your Elfonzo; for now is the time of your acceptance
of the day of your liberation. You cannot be ignorant, Ambulinia, that
thou art the desire of my heart; its thoughts are too noble, and too
pure, to conceal themselves from you. I shall wait for your answer to
this impatiently, expecting that you will set the time to make your
departure, and to be in readiness at a moment's warning to share the
joys of a more preferable life. This will be handed to you by Louisa,
who will take a pleasure in communicating anything to you that may
relieve your dejected spirits, and will assure you that I now stand
ready, willing, and waiting to make good my vows.

I am, dear Ambulinia, your

truly, and forever,

J. I. Elfonzo.



Louisa made it convenient to visit Mr. Valeer's, though they did not
suspect her in the least the bearer of love epistles; consequently,
she was invited in the room to console Ambulinia, where they were left
alone. Ambulinia was seated by a small table--her head resting on her
hand--her brilliant eyes were bathed in tears. Louisa handed her the
letter of Elfonzo, when another spirit animated her features--the
spirit of renewed confidence that never fails to strengthen the
female character in an hour of grief and sorrow like this, and as she
pronounced the last accent of his name, she exclaimed, "And does he love
me yet! I never will forget your generosity, Louisa. Oh, unhappy and yet
blessed Louisa! may you never feel what I have felt--may you never know
the pangs of love. Had I never loved, I never would have been unhappy;
but I turn to Him who can save, and if His wisdom does not will my
expected union, I know He will give me strength to bear my lot. Amuse
yourself with this little book, and take it as an apology for my
silence," said Ambulinia, "while I attempt to answer this volume of
consolation." "Thank you," said Louisa, "you are excusable upon this
occasion; but I pray you, Ambulinia, to be expert upon this momentous
subject, that there may be nothing mistrustful upon my part." "I will,"
said Ambulinia, and immediately resumed her seat and addressed the
following to Elfonzo:



Cumming, Ga., January 28, 1844.

Devoted Elfonzo--

I hail your letter as a welcome messenger of faith, and can now say
truly and firmly that my feelings correspond with yours. Nothing shall
be wanting on my part to make my obedience your fidelity. Courage and
perseverance will accomplish success. Receive this as my oath, that
while I grasp your hand in my own imagination, we stand united before a
higher tribunal than any on earth. All the powers of my life, soul, and
body, I devote to thee. Whatever dangers may threaten me, I fear not to
encounter them. Perhaps I have determined upon my own destruction, by
leaving the house of the best of parents; be it so; I flee to you; I
share your destiny, faithful to the end. The day that I have concluded
upon for this task is SABBATH next, when the family with the citizens
are generally at church. For Heaven's sake let not that day pass
unimproved: trust not till tomorrow, it is the cheat of life--the future
that never comes--the grave of many noble births--the cavern