ut three in the
morning--he was on a morning paper then, but he's on an evening one
now--there wasn't any place for him but with the iron-moulder; and if
you'll believe me, he just set up the rest of the night--he did, honest.
They say he's cracked, but it ain't so, he's English--they're awful
particular. You won't mind my saying that. You--you're English?"

"Yes."

"I thought so. I could tell it by the way you mispronounce the words
that's got a's in them, you know; such as saying loff when you mean laff
--but you'll get over that. He's a right down good fellow, and a little
sociable with the photographer's boy and the caulker and the blacksmith
that work in the navy yard, but not so much with the others. The fact
is, though it's private, and the others don't know it, he's a kind of
an aristocrat, his father being a doctor, and you know what style that
is--in England, I mean, because in this country a doctor ain't so very
much, even if he's that. But over there of course it's different. So
this chap had a falling out with his father, and was pretty high strung,
and just cut for this country, and the first he knew he had to get to
work or starve. Well, he'd been to college, you see, and so he judged he
was all right--did you say anything?"

"No--I only sighed."

"And there's where he was mistaken. Why, he mighty near starved. And I
reckon he would have starved sure enough, if some jour' printer or other
hadn't took pity on him and got him a place as apprentice. So he learnt
the trade, and then he was all right--but it was a close call. Once
he thought he had got to haul in his pride and holler for his father
and--why, you're sighing again. Is anything the matter with you?--does
my clatter--"

"Oh, dear--no. Pray go on--I like it."

"Yes, you see, he's been over here ten years; he's twenty-eight, now,
and he ain't pretty well satisfied in his mind, because he can't get
reconciled to being a mechanic and associating with mechanics, he being,
as he says to me, a gentleman, which is a pretty plain letting-on that
the boys ain't, but of course I know enough not to let that cat out of
the bag."

"Why--would there be any harm in it?"

"Harm in it? They'd lick him, wouldn't they? Wouldn't you? Of course
you would. Don't you ever let a man say you ain't a gentleman in this
country. But laws, what am I thinking about? I reckon a body would think
twice before he said a cowboy wasn't a gentleman."

A trim, active, slender and very pretty girl of about eighteen walked
into the room now, in the most satisfied and unembarrassed way. She
was cheaply but smartly and gracefully dressed, and the mother's quick
glance at the stranger's face as he rose, was of the kind which inquires
what effect has been produced, and expects to find indications of
surprise and admiration.

"This is my daughter Hattie--we call her Puss. It's the new boarder,
Puss." This without rising.

The young Englishman made the awkward bow common to his nationality and
time of life in circumstances of delicacy and difficulty, and these were
of that sort; for, being taken by surprise, his natural, lifelong self
sprang to the front, and that self of course would not know just how to
act when introduced to a chambermaid, or to the heiress of a mechanics'
boarding house. His other self--the self which recognized the equality
of all men--would have managed the thing better, if it hadn't been
caught off guard and robbed of its chance. The young girl paid no
attention to the bow, but put out her hand frankly and gave the stranger
a friendly shake and said:

"How do you do?"

Then she marched to the one washstand in the room, tilted her head this
way and that before the wreck of a cheap mirror that hung above it,
dampened her fingers with her tongue, perfected the circle of a little
lock of hair that was pasted against her forehead, then began to busy
herself with the slops.

"Well, I must be going--it's getting towards supper time. Make yourself
at home, Mr. Tracy, you'll hear the bell when it's ready."

The landlady took her tranquil departure, without commanding either of
the young people to vacate the room. The young man wondered a little
that a mother who seemed so honest and respectable should be so
thoughtless, and was reaching for his hat, intending to disembarrass the
girl of his presence; but she said:

"Where are you going?"

"Well--nowhere in particular, but as I am only in the way here--"

"Why, who said you were in the way? Sit down--I'll move you when you are
in the way."

She was making the beds, now. He sat down and watched her deft and
diligent performance.

"What gave you that notion? Do you reckon I need a whole room just to
make up a bed or two in?"

"Well no, it wasn't that, exactly. We are away up here in an empty
house, and your mother being gone--"

The girl interrupted him with an amused laugh, and said:

"Nobody to protect me? Bless you, I don't need it. I'm not afraid. I
might be if I was alone, because I do hate ghosts, and I don't deny it.
Not that I believe in them, for I don't. I'm only just afraid of them."

"How can you be afraid of them if you don