 and how his
     grandeurs were stricken valueless, and his pride consumed to ashes.
     It is a wonderfully beautiful and touching little scene, and papa
     has described it so wonderfully. I never saw a man with so much
     variety of feeling as papa has; now the "Prince and the Pauper" is
     full of touching places; but there is most always a streak of humor
     in them somewhere. Now in the coronation--in the stirring
     coronation, just after the little king has got his crown back again
     papa brings that in about the Seal, where the pauper says he used
     the Seal "to crack nuts with." Oh it is so funny and nice! Papa
     very seldom writes a passage without some humor in it somewhere,
     and I dont think he ever will.


The children always helped their mother to edit my books in manuscript.
She would sit on the porch at the farm and read aloud, with her pencil
in her hand, and the children would keep an alert and suspicious eye
upon her right along, for the belief was well grounded in them that
whenever she came across a particularly satisfactory passage she would
strike it out. Their suspicions were well founded. The passages which
were so satisfactory to them always had an element of strength in them
which sorely needed modification or expurgation, and were always sure to
get it at their mother's hand. For my own entertainment, and to enjoy
the protests of the children, I often abused my editor's innocent
confidence. I often interlarded remarks of a studied and felicitously
atrocious character purposely to achieve the children's brief delight,
and then see the remorseless pencil do its fatal work. I often joined my
supplications to the children's for mercy, and strung the argument out
and pretended to be in earnest. They were deceived, and so was their
mother. It was three against one, and most unfair. But it was very
delightful, and I could not resist the temptation. Now and then we
gained the victory and there was much rejoicing. Then I privately struck
the passage out myself. It had served its purpose. It had furnished
three of us with good entertainment, and in being removed from the book
by me it was only suffering the fate originally intended for it.

_From Susy's Biography._


     Papa was born in Missouri. His mother is Grandma Clemens (Jane
     Lampton Clemens) of Kentucky. Grandpa Clemens was of the F.F.V's of
     Virginia.


Without doubt it was I that gave Susy that impression. I cannot imagine
why, because I was never in my life much impressed by grandeurs which
proceed from the accident of birth. I did not get this indifference from
my mother. She was always strongly interested in the ancestry of the
house. She traced her own line back to the Lambtons of Durham,
England--a family which had been occupying broad lands there since Saxon
times. I am not sure, but I think that those Lambtons got along without
titles of nobility for eight or nine hundred years, then produced a
great man, three-quarters of a century ago, and broke into the peerage.
My mother knew all about the Clemenses of Virginia, and loved to
aggrandize them to me, but she has long been dead. There has been no one
to keep those details fresh in my memory, and they have grown dim.

There was a Jere. Clemens who was a United States Senator, and in his
day enjoyed the usual Senatorial fame--a fame which perishes whether it
spring from four years' service or forty. After Jere. Clemens's fame as
a Senator passed away, he was still remembered for many years on account
of another service which he performed. He shot old John Brown's Governor
Wise in the hind leg in a duel. However, I am not very clear about this.
It may be that Governor Wise shot _him_ in the hind leg. However, I
don't think it is important. I think that the only thing that is really
important is that one of them got shot in the hind leg. It would have
been better and nobler and more historical and satisfactory if both of
them had got shot in the hind leg--but it is of no use for me to try to
recollect history. I never had a historical mind. Let it go. Whichever
way it happened I am glad of it, and that is as much enthusiasm as I can
get up for a person bearing my name. But I am forgetting the first
Clemens--the one that stands furthest back toward the really original
_first_ Clemens, which was Adam.

_From Susy's Biography._


     Clara and I are sure that papa played the trick on Grandma, about
     the whipping, that is related in "The Adventures of Tom Sayer":
     "Hand me that switch." The switch hovered in the air, the peril was
     desperate--"My, look behind you Aunt!" The old lady whirled around
     and snatched her skirts out of danger. The lad fled on the instant,
     scrambling up the high board fence and dissapeared over it.


Susy and Clara were quite right about that.

Then Susy says:


     And we know papa played "Hookey" all the time. And how readily
     would papa pretend to be dying so as not to have to go to school!


These revelations and exposures are searching, but they are just If I am
as transparent to other people as I was to S