ut
presently spoke like one talking in his sleep, and said: "Did I hear
horses' feet? Have they come?"

One of the veterans answered, close to his ear: "It was Jimmy Parish
come to say the party got delayed, but they're right up the road a
piece, and coming along. Her horse is lame, but she'll be here in half
an hour."

"Oh, I'm SO thankful nothing has happened!"

He was asleep almost before the words were out of his mouth. In a moment
those handy men had his clothes off, and had tucked him into his bed in
the chamber where I had washed my hands. They closed the door and came
back. Then they seemed preparing to leave; but I said: "Please don't go,
gentlemen. She won't know me; I am a stranger."

They glanced at each other. Then Joe said:

"She? Poor thing, she's been dead nineteen years!"

"Dead?"

"That or worse. She went to see her folks half a year after she was
married, and on her way back, on a Saturday evening, the Indians
captured her within five miles of this place, and she's never been heard
of since."

"And he lost his mind in consequence?"

"Never has been sane an hour since. But he only gets bad when that time
of year comes round. Then we begin to drop in here, three days before
she's due, to encourage him up, and ask if he's heard from her,
and Saturday we all come and fix up the house with flowers, and get
everything ready for a dance. We've done it every year for nineteen
years. The first Saturday there was twenty-seven of us, without counting
the girls; there's only three of us now, and the girls are gone. We
drug him to sleep, or he would go wild; then he's all right for another
year--thinks she's with him till the last three or four days come round;
then he begins to look for her, and gets out his poor old letter, and we
come and ask him to read it to us. Lord, she was a darling!"







A HELPLESS SITUATION



Once or twice a year I get a letter of a certain pattern, a pattern that
never materially changes, in form and substance, yet I cannot get used
to that letter--it always astonishes me. It affects me as the locomotive
always affects me: I saw to myself, "I have seen you a thousand times,
you always look the same way, yet you are always a wonder, and you are
always impossible; to contrive you is clearly beyond human genius--you
can't exist, you don't exist, yet here you are!"

I have a letter of that kind by me, a very old one. I yearn to print it,
and where is the harm? The writer of it is dead years ago, no doubt, and
if I conceal her name and address--her this-world address--I am sure
her shade will not mind. And with it I wish to print the answer which
I wrote at the time but probably did not send. If it went--which is not
likely--it went in the form of a copy, for I find the original still
here, pigeonholed with the said letter. To that kind of letters we all
write answers which we do not send, fearing to hurt where we have no
desire to hurt; I have done it many a time, and this is doubtless a case
of the sort.


THE LETTER


X------, California, JUNE 3, 1879.

Mr. S. L. Clemens, HARTFORD, CONN.:


Dear Sir,--You will doubtless be surprised to know who has presumed to
write and ask a favor of you. Let your memory go back to your days in
the Humboldt mines--'62-'63. You will remember, you and Clagett and
Oliver and the old blacksmith Tillou lived in a lean-to which was
half-way up the gulch, and there were six log cabins in the camp--strung
pretty well separated up the gulch from its mouth at the desert to where
the last claim was, at the divide. The lean-to you lived in was the one
with a canvas roof that the cow fell down through one night, as told
about by you in ROUGHING IT--my uncle Simmons remembers it very well. He
lived in the principal cabin, half-way up the divide, along with Dixon
and Parker and Smith. It had two rooms, one for kitchen and the other
for bunks, and was the only one that had. You and your party were there
on the great night, the time they had dried-apple-pie, Uncle Simmons
often speaks of it. It seems curious that dried-apple-pie should have
seemed such a great thing, but it was, and it shows how far Humboldt was
out of the world and difficult to get to, and how slim the regular bill
of fare was. Sixteen years ago--it is a long time. I was a little girl
then, only fourteen. I never saw you, I lived in Washoe. But Uncle
Simmons ran across you every now and then, all during those weeks that
you and party were there working your claim which was like the rest. The
camp played out long and long ago, there wasn't silver enough in it
to make a button. You never saw my husband, but he was there after you
left, AND LIVED IN THAT VERY LEAN-TO, a bachelor then but married to me
now. He often wishes there had been a photographer there in those days,
he would have taken the lean-to. He got hurt in the old Hal Clayton
claim that was abandoned like the others, putting in a blast and not
climbing out quick enough, though he scrambled the best he could. It
landed him clear down on the train and hit a Piute. For weeks they
thought he would not get over it but he did, and is all right, now. 