profound vows, decorated with immaculate deeds, are written upon the
surface of that precious spot of earth where I yielded up my life of
celibacy, bade youth with all its beauties a final adieu, took a last
farewell of the laurels that had accompanied me up the hill of my
juvenile career. It was then I began to descend toward the valley of
disappointment and sorrow; it was then I cast my little bark upon a
mysterious ocean of wedlock, with him who then smiled and caressed me,
but, alas! now frowns with bitterness, and has grown jealous and cold
toward me, because the ring he gave me is misplaced or lost. Oh, bear
me, ye flowers of memory, softly through the eventful history of past
times; and ye places that have witnessed the progression of man in
the circle of so many societies, and, of, aid my recollection, while I
endeavor to trace the vicissitudes of a life devoted in endeavoring to
comfort him that I claim as the object of my wishes.


     Ah! ye mysterious men, of all the world, how few

     Act just to Heaven and to your promise true!

     But He who guides the stars with a watchful eye,

     The deeds of men lay open without disguise;

     Oh, this alone will avenge the wrongs I bear,

     For all the oppressed are His peculiar care.


(F. makes a slight noise.)


A. Who is there--Farcillo?

G. Then I must gone. Heaven protect you. Oh, Amelia, farewell, be of
good cheer.


     May you stand like Olympus' towers,

     Against earth and all jealous powers!

     May you, with loud shouts ascend on high

     Swift as an eagle in the upper sky.


A. Why so cold and distant tonight, Farcillo? Come, let us each other
greet, and forget all the past, and give security for the future.

F. Security! talk to me about giving security for the future--what an
insulting requisition! Have you said your prayers tonight, Madam Amelia?

A. Farcillo, we sometimes forget our duty, particularly when we expect
to be caressed by others.

F. If you bethink yourself of any crime, or of any fault, that is yet
concealed from the courts of Heaven and the thrones of grace, I bid you
ask and solicit forgiveness for it now.

A. Oh, be kind, Farcillo, don't treat me so. What do you mean by all
this?

F. Be kind, you say; you, madam, have forgot that kindness you owe to
me, and bestowed it upon another; you shall suffer for your conduct
when you make your peace with your God. I would not slay thy unprotected
spirit. I call to Heaven to be my guard and my watch--I would not kill
thy soul, in which all once seemed just, right, and perfect; but I must
be brief, woman.

A. What, talk you of killing? Oh, Farcillo, Farcillo, what is the
matter?

F. Aye, I do, without doubt; mark what I say, Amelia.

A. Then, O God, O Heaven, and Angels, be propitious, and have mercy upon
me.

F. Amen to that, madam, with all my heart, and with all my soul.

A. Farcillo, listen to me one moment; I hope you will not kill me.

F. Kill you, aye, that I will; attest it, ye fair host of light, record
it, ye dark imps of hell!

A. Oh, I fear you--you are fatal when darkness covers your brow; yet I
know not why I should fear, since I never wronged you in all my life. I
stand, sir, guiltless before you.

F. You pretend to say you are guiltless! Think of thy sins, Amelia;
think, oh, think, hidden woman.

A. Wherein have I not been true to you? That death is unkind, cruel, and
unnatural, that kills for living.

F. Peace, and be still while I unfold to thee.

A. I will, Farcillo, and while I am thus silent, tell me the cause of
such cruel coldness in an hour like this.

F. That RING, oh, that ring I so loved, and gave thee as the ring of my
heart; the allegiance you took to be faithful, when it was presented;
the kisses and smiles with which you honored it. You became tired of
the donor, despised it as a plague, and finally gave it to Malos, the
hidden, the vile traitor.

A. No, upon my word and honor, I never did; I appeal to the Most High to
bear me out in this matter. Send for Malos, and ask him.

F. Send for Malos, aye! Malos you wish to see; I thought so. I knew you
could not keep his name concealed. Amelia, sweet Amelia, take heed, take
heed of perjury; you are on the stage of death, to suffer for YOUR SINS.

A. What, not to die I hope, my Farcillo, my ever beloved.

F. Yes, madam, to die a traitor's death. Shortly your spirit shall take
its exit; therefore confess freely thy sins, for to deny tends only to
make me groan under the bitter cup thou hast made for me. Thou art to
die with the name of traitor on thy brow!

A. Then, O Lord, have mercy upon me; give me courage, give me grace and
fortitude to stand this hour of trial.

F. Amen, I say, with all my heart.

A. And, oh, Farcillo, will you have mercy, too? I never intentionally
offended you in all my life, never LOVED Malos, never gave him cause
to think so, as the high court of Justice will acquit me before its
tribunal.

F. Oh, false, perjured woman, thou didst chill my blood, and makest me a
demon like thyself. I saw the ring.

A. He found it, then, or got it clandestinely; send for him, and let him
confess the 