dred and sixteen thousand dollars--they threw the land in,
for it was four hundred miles from a settlement.

Well, in the mean time my path was a path of roses. I was the accepted
suitor of the only and lovely daughter of an English earl, and was
beloved to distraction. In that dear presence I swam in seas of bliss.
The family were content, for it was known that I was sole heir to an
uncle held to be worth five millions of dollars. However, none of us
knew that my uncle had become a collector, at least in anything more
than a small way, for esthetic amusement.

Now gathered the clouds above my unconscious head. That divine echo,
since known throughout the world as the Great Koh-i-noor, or Mountain
of Repetitions, was discovered. It was a sixty-five carat gem. You could
utter a word and it would talk back at you for fifteen minutes, when the
day was otherwise quiet. But behold, another fact came to light at the
same time: another echo-collector was in the field. The two rushed to
make the peerless purchase. The property consisted of a couple of
small hills with a shallow swale between, out yonder among the back
settlements of New York State. Both men arrived on the ground at the
same time, and neither knew the other was there. The echo was not all
owned by one man; a person by the name of Williamson Bolivar Jarvis
owned the east hill, and a person by the name of Harbison J. Bledso
owned the west hill; the swale between was the dividing-line. So while
my uncle was buying Jarvis's hill for three million two hundred and
eighty-five thousand dollars, the other party was buying Bledso's hill
for a shade over three million.

Now, do you perceive the natural result? Why, the noblest collection of
echoes on earth was forever and ever incomplete, since it possessed but
the one-half of the king echo of the universe. Neither man was content
with this divided ownership, yet neither would sell to the other.
There were jawings, bickerings, heart-burnings. And at last that other
collector, with a malignity which only a collector can ever feel toward
a man and a brother, proceeded to cut down his hill!

You see, as long as he could not have the echo, he was resolved that
nobody should have it. He would remove his hill, and then there would be
nothing to reflect my uncle's echo. My uncle remonstrated with him, but
the man said, "I own one end of this echo; I choose to kill my end; you
must take care of your own end yourself."

Well, my uncle got an injunction put on him. The other man appealed and
fought it in a higher court. They carried it on up, clear to the Supreme
Court of the United States. It made no end of trouble there. Two of
the judges believed that an echo was personal property, because it was
impalpable to sight and touch, and yet was purchasable, salable, and
consequently taxable; two others believed that an echo was real estate,
because it was manifestly attached to the land, and was not removable
from place to place; other of the judges contended that an echo was not
property at all.

It was finally decided that the echo was property; that the hills were
property; that the two men were separate and independent owners of the
two hills, but tenants in common in the echo; therefore defendant was at
full liberty to cut down his hill, since it belonged solely to him, but
must give bonds in three million dollars as indemnity for damages which
might result to my uncle's half of the echo. This decision also debarred
my uncle from using defendant's hill to reflect his part of the echo,
without defendant's consent; he must use only his own hill; if his part
of the echo would not go, under these circumstances, it was sad, of
course, but the court could find no remedy. The court also debarred
defendant from using my uncle's hill to reflect his end of the echo,
without consent. You see the grand result! Neither man would give
consent, and so that astonishing and most noble echo had to cease from
its great powers; and since that day that magnificent property is tied
up and unsalable.

A week before my wedding-day, while I was still swimming in bliss and
the nobility were gathering from far and near to honor our espousals,
came news of my uncle's death, and also a copy of his will, making me
his sole heir. He was gone; alas, my dear benefactor was no more. The
thought surcharges my heart even at this remote day. I handed the will
to the earl; I could not read it for the blinding tears. The earl read
it; then he sternly said, "Sir, do you call this wealth?--but doubtless
you do in your inflated country. Sir, you are left sole heir to a vast
collection of echoes--if a thing can be called a collection that is
scattered far and wide over the huge length and breadth of the American
continent; sir, this is not all; you are head and ears in debt; there
is not an echo in the lot but has a mortgage on it; sir, I am not a hard
man, but I must look to my child's interest; if you had but one echo
which you could honestly call your own, if you had but one echo which
was free from incumbrance, so that you could retire to it with my child,
and by humble, p