 is the other way about:
the person who DOESN'T own one is a curiosity. I saw a type-machine for
the first time in--what year? I suppose it was 1873--because Nasby was
with me at the time, and it was in Boston. We must have been lecturing,
or we could not have been in Boston, I take it. I quitted the platform
that season.

But never mind about that, it is no matter. Nasby and I saw the machine
through a window, and went in to look at it. The salesman explained it
to us, showed us samples of its work, and said it could do fifty-seven
words a minute--a statement which we frankly confessed that we did not
believe. So he put his type-girl to work, and we timed her by the
watch. She actually did the fifty-seven in sixty seconds. We were partly
convinced, but said it probably couldn't happen again. But it did. We
timed the girl over and over again--with the same result always: she won
out. She did her work on narrow slips of paper, and we pocketed them as
fast as she turned them out, to show as curiosities. The price of the
machine was one hundred and twenty-five dollars. I bought one, and we
went away very much excited.

At the hotel we got out our slips and were a little disappointed to find
that they contained the same words. The girl had economized time
and labor by using a formula which she knew by heart. However, we
argued--safely enough--that the FIRST type-girl must naturally take rank
with the first billiard-player: neither of them could be expected to get
out of the game any more than a third or a half of what was in it. If
the machine survived--IF it survived--experts would come to the front,
by and by, who would double the girl's output without a doubt. They
would do one hundred words a minute--my talking speed on the platform.
That score has long ago been beaten.

At home I played with the toy, repeated and repeating and repeated "The
Boy stood on the Burning Deck," until I could turn that boy's adventure
out at the rate of twelve words a minute; then I resumed the pen, for
business, and only worked the machine to astonish inquiring visitors.
They carried off many reams of the boy and his burning deck.

By and by I hired a young woman, and did my first dictating (letters,
merely), and my last until now. The machine did not do both capitals and
lower case (as now), but only capitals. Gothic capitals they were, and
sufficiently ugly. I remember the first letter I dictated, it was to
Edward Bok, who was a boy then. I was not acquainted with him at that
time. His present enterprising spirit is not new--he had it in that
early day. He was accumulating autographs, and was not content with
mere signatures, he wanted a whole autograph LETTER. I furnished it--in
type-written capitals, SIGNATURE AND ALL. It was long; it was a sermon;
it contained advice; also reproaches. I said writing was my TRADE,
my bread-and-butter; I said it was not fair to ask a man to give away
samples of his trade; would he ask the blacksmith for a horseshoe? would
he ask the doctor for a corpse?

Now I come to an important matter--as I regard it. In the year '74 the
young woman copied a considerable part of a book of mine ON THE MACHINE.
In a previous chapter of this Autobiography I have claimed that I was
the first person in the world that ever had a telephone in the house for
practical purposes; I will now claim--until dispossess--that I was the
first person in the world to APPLY THE TYPE-MACHINE TO LITERATURE. That
book must have been THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER. I wrote the first half
of it in '72, the rest of it in '74. My machinist type-copied a book for
me in '74, so I concluded it was that one.

That early machine was full of caprices, full of defects--devilish ones.
It had as many immoralities as the machine of today has virtues. After
a year or two I found that it was degrading my character, so I thought
I would give it to Howells. He was reluctant, for he was suspicious of
novelties and unfriendly toward them, and he remains so to this day. But
I persuaded him. He had great confidence in me, and I got him to believe
things about the machine that I did not believe myself. He took it home
to Boston, and my morals began to improve, but his have never recovered.

He kept it six months, and then returned it to me. I gave it away twice
after that, but it wouldn't stay; it came back. Then I gave it to our
coachman, Patrick McAleer, who was very grateful, because he did not
know the animal, and thought I was trying to make him wiser and better.
As soon as he got wiser and better he traded it to a heretic for a
side-saddle which he could not use, and there my knowledge of its
history ends.






ITALIAN WITHOUT A MASTER



It is almost a fortnight now that I am domiciled in a medieval villa in
the country, a mile or two from Florence. I cannot speak the language;
I am too old not to learn how, also too busy when I am busy, and too
indolent when I am not; wherefore some will imagine that I am having a
dull time of it. But it is not so. The "help" are all natives; they talk
Italian to me, I answer in English; I do not understand them, they
do not unde