uest, draped Andrew Jackson's
portrait with crape, the rightful earl, wrote off the family bereavement
to the usurper in England--a letter which we have already read. He also,
by letter to the village authorities at Duffy's Corners, Arkansas, gave
order that the remains of the late twins be embalmed by some St. Louis
expert and shipped at once to the usurper--with bill. Then he drafted
out the Rossmore arms and motto on a great sheet of brown paper, and he
and Hawkins took it to Hawkins's Yankee furniture-mender and at the end
of an hour came back with a couple of stunning hatchments, which they
nailed up on the front of the house--attractions calculated to draw, and
they did; for it was mainly an idle and shiftless negro neighborhood,
with plenty of ragged children and indolent dogs to spare for a point
of interest like that, and keep on sparing them for it, days and days
together.

The new earl found--without surprise--this society item in the evening
paper, and cut it out and scrapbooked it:

     By a recent bereavement our esteemed fellow citizen, Colonel
     Mulberry Sellers, Perpetual Member-at-large of the
     Diplomatic Body, succeeds, as rightful lord, to the great
     earldom of Rossmore, third by order of precedence in the
     earldoms of Great Britain, and will take early measures, by
     suit in the House of Lords, to wrest the title and estates
     from the present usurping holder of them. Until the season
     of mourning is past, the usual Thursday evening receptions
     at Rossmore Towers will be discontinued.

Lady Rossmore's comment-to herself:

"Receptions! People who don't rightly know him may think he is
commonplace, but to my mind he is one of the most unusual men I ever
saw. As for suddenness and capacity in imagining things, his beat don't
exist, I reckon. As like as not it wouldn't have occurred to anybody
else to name this poor old rat-trap Rossmore Towers, but it just
comes natural to him. Well, no doubt it's a blessed thing to have an
imagination that can always make you satisfied, no matter how you are
fixed. Uncle Dave Hopkins used to always say, 'Turn me into John Calvin,
and I want to know which place I'm going to; turn me into Mulberry
Sellers and I don't care.'"

The rightful earl's comment-to himself:

"It's a beautiful name, beautiful. Pity I didn't think of it before I
wrote the usurper. But I'll be ready for him when he answers."





CHAPTER V.

No answer to that telegram; no arriving daughter. Yet nobody showed any
uneasiness or seemed surprised; that is, nobody but Washington. After
three days of waiting, he asked Lady Rossmore what she supposed the
trouble was. She answered, tranquilly:

"Oh, it's some notion of hers, you never can tell. She's a Sellers,
all through--at least in some of her ways; and a Sellers can't tell you
beforehand what he's going to do, because he don't know himself till
he's done it. She's all right; no occasion to worry about her. When
she's ready she'll come or she'll write, and you can't tell which, till
it's happened."

It turned out to be a letter. It was handed in at that moment, and was
received by the mother without trembling hands or feverish eagerness,
or any other of the manifestations common in the case of long delayed
answers to imperative telegrams. She polished her glasses with
tranquility and thoroughness, pleasantly gossiping along, the while,
then opened the letter and began to read aloud:



  KENILWORTH KEEP, REDGAUNTLET HALL,
  ROWENA-IVANHOE COLLEGE, THURSDAY.


  DEAR PRECIOUS MAMMA ROSSMORE:

Oh, the joy of it!--you can't think. They had always turned up their
noses at our pretentions, you know; and I had fought back as well as I
could by turning up mine at theirs. They always said it might be
something great and fine to be the rightful Shadow of an earldom, but to
merely be shadow of a shadow, and two or three times removed at that--
pooh-pooh! And I always retorted that not to be able to show four
generations of American-Colonial-Dutch Peddler-and-Salt-Cod-McAllister-
Nobility might be endurable, but to have to confess such an origin--
pfew-few! Well, the telegram, it was just a cyclone! The messenger came
right into the great Rob Roy Hall of Audience, as excited as he could
be, singing out, "Dispatch for Lady Gwendolen Sellers!" and you ought to
have seen that simpering chattering assemblage of pinchbeck aristocrats,
turn to stone! I was off in the corner, of course, by myself--it's where
Cinderella belongs. I took the telegram and read it, and tried to faint-
-and I could have done it if I had had any preparation, but it was all
so sudden, you know--but no matter, I did the next best thing: I put my
handkerchief to my eyes and fled sobbing to my room, dropping the
telegram as I started. I released one corner of my eye a moment--just
enough to see the herd swarm for the telegram--and then continued my
broken-hearted flight just as happy as a bird.

Then the visits of condolence began, and I had to accept the loan of
Miss Augusta-Templeton-Ashmore Hamilton's quarters because the press was
so great and there isn't room for thre