e was lecturing with papa, he wrote this
     letter to him just before he came to visit us.


     DEAR UNCLE,--That's one nice thing about me, I never bother any
     one, to offer me a good thing twice. You dont ask me to stay over
     Sunday, but then you dont ask me to leave Saturday night, and
     knowing the nobility of your nature as I do--thank you, I'll stay
     till Monday morning.[15]

                   Your's and the dear familie's
                                              GEORGE W. CABLE.


[_December 22, 1906._] It seems a prodigious while ago! Two or three
nights ago I dined at a friend's house with a score of other men, and at
my side was Cable--actually almost an old man, really almost an old man,
that once so young chap! 62 years old, frost on his head, seven
grandchildren in stock, and a brand-new wife to re-begin life with!

[_Dictated Nov. 19, 1906._]


     Ever since papa and mamma were married, papa has written his books
     and then taken them to mamma in manuscript and she has expergated
     them. Papa read "Huckleberry Finn" to us in manuscript just before
     it came out, and then he would leave parts of it with mamma to
     expergate, while he went off up to the study to work, and sometimes
     Clara and I would be sitting with mamma while she was looking the
     manuscript over, and I remember so well, with what pangs of regret
     we used to see her turn down the leaves of the pages, which meant
     that some delightfully dreadful part must be scratched out. And I
     remember one part pertickularly which was perfectly fascinating it
     was dreadful, that Clara and I used to delight in, and oh with what
     dispair we saw mamma turn down the leaf on which it was written, we
     thought the book would be almost ruined without it. But we
     gradually came to feel as mamma did.


It would be a pity to replace the vivacity and quaintness and felicity
of Susy's innocent free spelling with the dull and petrified
uniformities of the spelling-book. Nearly all the grimness it taken out
of the "expergating" of my books by the subtle mollification
accidentally infused into the word by Susy's modification of the
spelling of it.

I remember the special case mentioned by Susy, and can see the group
yet--two-thirds of it pleading for the life of the culprit sentence that
was so fascinatingly dreadful and the other third of it patiently
explaining why the court could not grant the prayer of the pleaders; but
I do not remember what the condemned phrase was. It had much company,
and they all went to the gallows; but it is possible that that specially
dreadful one which gave those little people so much delight was
cunningly devised and put into the book for just that function, and not
with any hope or expectation that it would get by the "exper-gator"
alive. It is possible, for I had that custom.

Susy's quaint and effective spelling falls quite opportunely into
to-day's atmosphere, which is heavy with the rumblings and grumblings
and mutterings of the Simplified Spelling Reform. Andrew Carnegie
started this storm, a couple of years ago, by moving a simplifying of
English orthography, and establishing a fund for the prosecution and
maintenance of the crusade. He began gently. He addressed a circular to
some hundreds of his friends, asking them to simplify the spelling of a
dozen of our badly spelt words--I think they were only words which end
with the superfluous _ugh_. He asked that these friends use the
suggested spellings in their private correspondence.

By this, one perceives that the beginning was sufficiently quiet and
unaggressive.

Next stage: a small committee was appointed, with Brander Matthews for
managing director and spokesman. It issued a list of three hundred
words, of average silliness as to spelling, and proposed new and sane
spellings for these words. The President of the United States,
unsolicited, adopted these simplified three hundred officially, and
ordered that they be used in the official documents of the Government.
It was now remarked, by all the educated and the thoughtful except the
clergy that Sheol was to pay. This was most justly and comprehensively
descriptive. The indignant British lion rose, with a roar that was heard
across the Atlantic, and stood there on his little isle, gazing,
red-eyed, out over the glooming seas, snow-flecked with driving
spindrift, and lathing his tail--a most scary spectacle to see.

The lion was outraged because we, a nation of children, without any
grown-up people among us, with no property in the language, but using it
merely by courtesy of its owner the English nation, were trying to
defile the sacredness of it by removing from it peculiarities which had
been its ornament and which had made it holy and beautiful for ages.

In truth there is a certain sardonic propriety in preserving our
orthography, since ours is a mongrel language which started with a
child's vocabulary of three hundred words, and now consists of two
hundred and twenty-five thousand; the whole lot, with the exception of
the original and legitimate three hund