


     After papa and General Grant had had their talk, we went back to
     the hotel where mamma was, and papa told mamma all about his
     interview with General Grant. Mamma and I had a nice quiet
     afternoon together.


That pair of devoted comrades were always shutting themselves up
together when there was opportunity to have what Susy called "a cozy
time." From Susy's nursery days to the end of her life, she and her
mother were close friends; intimate friends, passionate adorers of each
other. Susy's was a beautiful mind, and it made her an interesting
comrade. And with the fine mind she had a heart like her mother's. Susy
never had an interest or an occupation which she was not glad to put
aside for that something which was in all cases more precious to her--a
visit with her mother. Susy died at the right time, the fortunate time
of life; the happy age--twenty-four years. At twenty-four, such a girl
has seen the best of life--life as a happy dream. After that age the
risks begin; responsibility comes, and with it the cares, the sorrows,
and the inevitable tragedy. For her mother's sake I would have brought
her back from the grave if I could, but I would not have done it for my
own.

_From Susy's Biography_.


     Then papa went to read in public; there were a great many authors
     that read, that Thursday afternoon, beside papa; I would have liked
     to have gone and heard papa read, but papa said he was going to
     read in Vassar just what he was planning to read in New York, so I
     stayed at home with mamma.

     The next day mamma planned to take the four o'clock car back to
     Hartford. We rose quite early that morning and went to the Vienna
     Bakery and took breakfast there. From there we went to a German
     bookstore and bought some German books for Clara's birthday.


Dear me, the power of association to snatch mouldy dead memories out of
their graves and make them walk! That remark about buying foreign books
throws a sudden white glare upon the distant past; and I see the long
stretch of a New York street with an unearthly vividness, and John Hay
walking down it, grave and remorseful. I was walking down it too, that
morning, and I overtook Hay and asked him what the trouble was. He
turned a lustreless eye upon me and said:

"My case is beyond cure. In the most innocent way in the world I have
committed a crime which will never be forgiven by the sufferers, for
they will never believe--oh, well, no, I was going to say they would
never believe that I did the thing innocently. The truth is they will
know that I acted innocently, because they are rational people; but what
of that? I never can look them in the face again--nor they me, perhaps."

Hay was a young bachelor, and at that time was on the "Tribune" staff.
He explained his trouble in these words, substantially:

"When I was passing along here yesterday morning on my way down-town to
the office, I stepped into a bookstore where I am acquainted, and asked
if they had anything new from the other side. They handed me a French
novel, in the usual yellow paper cover, and I carried it away. I didn't
even look at the title of it. It was for recreation reading, and I was
on my way to my work. I went mooning and dreaming along, and I think I
hadn't gone more than fifty yards when I heard my name called. I
stopped, and a private carriage drew up at the sidewalk and I shook
hands with the inmates--mother and young daughter, excellent people.
They were on their way to the steamer to sail for Paris. The mother
said,

"'I saw that book in your hand and I judged by the look of it that it
was a French novel. Is it?'

"I said it was.

"She said, 'Do let me have it, so that my daughter can practise her
French on it on the way over.'

"Of course I handed her the book, and we parted. Ten minutes ago I was
passing that bookstore again, and I stepped in and fetched away another
copy of that book. Here it is. Read the first page of it. That is
enough. You will know what the rest is like. I think it must be the
foulest book in the French language--one of the foulest, anyway. I would
be ashamed to offer it to a harlot--but, oh dear, I gave it to that
sweet young girl without shame. Take my advice; don't give away a book
until you have examined it."

_From Susy's Biography._


     Then mamma and I went to do some shopping and papa went to see
     General Grant. After we had finnished doing our shopping we went
     home to the hotel together. When we entered our rooms in the hotel
     we saw on the table a vase full of exquisett red roses. Mamma who
     is very fond of flowers exclaimed "Oh I wonder who could have sent
     them." We both looked at the card in the midst of the roses and saw
     that it was written on in papa's handwriting, it was written in
     German. 'Liebes Geshchenk on die mamma.' [I am sure I didn't say
     "on"--that is Susy's spelling, not mine; also I am sure I didn't
     spell Geschenk so liberally as all that.--S. L. C.] Mamma was
     delighted. Papa came home and gave mamma her ticket; and after
     visiting a while with 