nly just dropped over to ask about the little madam, and when is she
coming home. Any news from her?"

"Oh, yes, a letter. Would you like to hear it, Tom?"

"Well, I should think I would, if you don't mind, Henry!"

Henry got the letter out of his wallet, and said he would skip some of
the private phrases, if we were willing; then he went on and read the
bulk of it--a loving, sedate, and altogether charming and gracious
piece of handiwork, with a postscript full of affectionate regards
and messages to Tom, and Joe, and Charley, and other close friends and
neighbors.

As the reader finished, he glanced at Tom, and cried out:

"Oho, you're at it again! Take your hands away, and let me see your
eyes. You always do that when I read a letter from her. I will write and
tell her."

"Oh no, you mustn't, Henry. I'm getting old, you know, and any little
disappointment makes me want to cry. I thought she'd be here herself,
and now you've got only a letter."

"Well, now, what put that in your head? I thought everybody knew she
wasn't coming till Saturday."

"Saturday! Why, come to think, I did know it. I wonder what's the matter
with me lately? Certainly I knew it. Ain't we all getting ready for her?
Well, I must be going now. But I'll be on hand when she comes, old man!"

Late Friday afternoon another gray veteran tramped over from his cabin a
mile or so away, and said the boys wanted to have a little gaiety and
a good time Saturday night, if Henry thought she wouldn't be too tired
after her journey to be kept up.

"Tired? She tired! Oh, hear the man! Joe, YOU know she'd sit up six
weeks to please any one of you!"

When Joe heard that there was a letter, he asked to have it read, and
the loving messages in it for him broke the old fellow all up; but he
said he was such an old wreck that THAT would happen to him if she only
just mentioned his name. "Lord, we miss her so!" he said.

Saturday afternoon I found I was taking out my watch pretty often. Henry
noticed it, and said, with a startled look:

"You don't think she ought to be here soon, do you?"

I felt caught, and a little embarrassed; but I laughed, and said it was
a habit of mine when I was in a state of expenctancy. But he didn't seem
quite satisfied; and from that time on he began to show uneasiness. Four
times he walked me up the road to a point whence we could see a long
distance; and there he would stand, shading his eyes with his hand, and
looking. Several times he said:

"I'm getting worried, I'm getting right down worried. I know she's not
due till about nine o'clock, and yet something seems to be trying
to warn me that something's happened. You don't think anything has
happened, do you?"

I began to get pretty thoroughly ashamed of him for his childishness;
and at last, when he repeated that imploring question still another
time, I lost my patience for the moment, and spoke pretty brutally to
him. It seemed to shrivel him up and cow him; and he looked so wounded
and so humble after that, that I detested myself for having done the
cruel and unnecessary thing. And so I was glad when Charley, another
veteran, arrived toward the edge of the evening, and nestled up to
Henry to hear the letter read, and talked over the preparations for the
welcome. Charley fetched out one hearty speech after another, and did
his best to drive away his friend's bodings and apprehensions.

"Anything HAPPENED to her? Henry, that's pure nonsense. There isn't
anything going to happen to her; just make your mind easy as to that.
What did the letter say? Said she was well, didn't it? And said she'd
be here by nine o'clock, didn't it? Did you ever know her to fail of her
word? Why, you know you never did. Well, then, don't you fret; she'll BE
here, and that's absolutely certain, and as sure as you are born. Come,
now, let's get to decorating--not much time left."

Pretty soon Tom and Joe arrived, and then all hands set about adoring
the house with flowers. Toward nine the three miners said that as they
had brought their instruments they might as well tune up, for the
boys and girls would soon be arriving now, and hungry for a good,
old-fashioned break-down. A fiddle, a banjo, and a clarinet--these were
the instruments. The trio took their places side by side, and began to
play some rattling dance-music, and beat time with their big boots.

It was getting very close to nine. Henry was standing in the door with
his eyes directed up the road, his body swaying to the torture of his
mental distress. He had been made to drink his wife's health and safety
several times, and now Tom shouted:

"All hands stand by! One more drink, and she's here!"

Joe brought the glasses on a waiter, and served the party. I reached for
one of the two remaining glasses, but Joe growled under his breath:

"Drop that! Take the other."

Which I did. Henry was served last. He had hardly swallowed his drink
when the clock began to strike. He listened till it finished, his face
growing pale and paler; then he said:

"Boys, I'm sick with fear. Help me--I want to lie down!"

They helped him to the sofa. He began to nestle and drowse, b