er, my friend, is not the stupid, "serious" creature he
pretends to be, _I_ think; but, on the contrary, has a keep appreciation
and enjoyment of your book. As I read his article in THE GALAXY, I could
imagine him giving vent to many a hearty laugh. But he is writing for
Catholics and Established Church people, and high-toned, antiquated,
conservative gentility, whom it is a delight to him to help you shock,
while he pretends to shake his head with owlish density. He is a
magnificent humorist himself.


(Now that is graceful and handsome. I take off my hat to my life-long
friend and comrade, and with my feet together and my fingers spread over
my heart, I say, in the language of Alabama, "You do me proud.")

I stand guilty of the authorship of the article, but I did not mean any
harm. I saw by an item in the Boston ADVERTISER that a solemn, serious
critique on the English edition of my book had appeared in the London
SATURDAY REVIEW, and the idea of SUCH a literary breakfast by a stolid,
ponderous British ogre of the quill was too much for a naturally weak
virtue, and I went home and burlesqued it--reveled in it, I may say. I
never saw a copy of the real SATURDAY REVIEW criticism until after my
burlesque was written and mailed to the printer. But when I did get hold
of a copy, I found it to be vulgar, awkwardly written, ill-natured, and
entirely serious and in earnest. The gentleman who wrote the newspaper
paragraph above quoted had not been misled as to its character.

If any man doubts my word now, I will kill him. No, I will not kill him;
I will win his money. I will bet him twenty to one, and let any New York
publisher hold the stakes, that the statements I have above made as to
the authorship of the article in question are entirely true. Perhaps
I may get wealthy at this, for I am willing to take all the bets that
offer; and if a man wants larger odds, I will give him all he requires.
But he ought to find out whether I am betting on what is termed "a sure
thing" or not before he ventures his money, and he can do that by going
to a public library and examining the London SATURDAY REVIEW of October
8th, which contains the real critique.

Bless me, some people thought that _I_ was the "sold" person!


P.S.--I cannot resist the temptation to toss in this most savory thing
of all--this easy, graceful, philosophical disquisition, with his happy,
chirping confidence. It is from the Cincinnati ENQUIRER:


Nothing is more uncertain than the value of a fine cigar. Nine smokers
out of ten would prefer an ordinary domestic article, three for a
quarter, to fifty-cent Partaga, if kept in ignorance of the cost of the
latter. The flavor of the Partaga is too delicate for palates that have
been accustomed to Connecticut seed leaf. So it is with humor. The finer
it is in quality, the more danger of its not being recognized at all.
Even Mark Twain has been taken in by an English review of his
INNOCENTS ABROAD. Mark Twain is by no means a coarse humorist, but the
Englishman's humor is so much finer than his, that he mistakes it for
solid earnest, and "lafts most consumedly."


A man who cannot learn stands in his own light. Hereafter, when I write
an article which I know to be good, but which I may have reason to fear
will not, in some quarters, be considered to amount to much, coming
from an American, I will aver that an Englishman wrote it and that it
is copied from a London journal. And then I will occupy a back seat and
enjoy the cordial applause.


(Still later)


Mark Twain at last sees that the SATURDAY REVIEW'S criticism of his
INNOCENTS ABROAD was not serious, and he is intensely mortified at the
thought of having been so badly sold. He takes the only course left him,
and in the last GALAXY claims that HE wrote the criticism himself, and
published it in THE GALAXY to sell the public. This is ingenious,
but unfortunately it is not true. If any of our readers will take the
trouble to call at this office we sill show them the original article in
the SATURDAY REVIEW of October 8th, which, on comparison, will be found
to be identical with the one published in THE GALAXY. The best thing for
Mark to do will be to admit that he was sold, and say no more about it.


The above is from the Cincinnati ENQUIRER, and is a falsehood. Come to
the proof. If the ENQUIRER people, through any agent, will produce at
THE GALAXY office a London SATURDAY REVIEW of October 8th, containing an
article which, on comparison, will be found to be identical with the one
published in THE GALAXY, I will pay to that agent five hundred dollars
cash. Moreover, if at any specified time I fail to produce at the same
place a copy of the London SATURDAY REVIEW of October 8th, containing
a lengthy criticism upon the INNOCENTS ABROAD, entirely different, in
every paragraph and sentence, from the one I published in THE GALAXY,
I will pay to the ENQUIRER agent another five hundred dollars cash.
I offer Sheldon & Co., publishers, 500 Broadway, New York, as my
"backers." Any one in New York, authorized by the ENQUIRER, will receive
prompt attention. It is an easy and profitabl