 of Miss Sally's college life--were
brought. Tracy said he was better in oils, but would take a chance with
these. So he was left alone. He began his work, but the attractions
of the place were too strong for him, and he got up and went drifting
about, fascinated; also amazed.





CHAPTER XIX.

Meantime the earl and Hawkins were holding a troubled and anxious
private consultation. The earl said:

"The mystery that bothers me, is, where did It get its other arm?"

"Yes--it worries me, too. And another thing troubles me--the apparition
is English. How do you account for that, Colonel?"

"Honestly, I don't know, Hawkins, I don't really know. It is very
confusing and awful."

"Don't you think maybe we've waked up the wrong one?"

"The wrong one? How do you account for the clothes?"

"The clothes are right, there's no getting around it. What are we
going to do? We can't collect, as I see. The reward is for a one-armed
American. This is a two-armed Englishman."

"Well, it may be that that is not objectionable. You see it isn't less
than is called for, it is more, and so,--"

But he saw that this argument was weak, and dropped it. The friends
sat brooding over their perplexities some time in silence. Finally
the earl's face began to glow with an inspiration, and he said,
impressively:

"Hawkins, this materialization is a grander and nobler science than we
have dreamed of. We have little imagined what a solemn and stupendous
thing we have done. The whole secret is perfectly clear to me, now,
clear as day. Every man is made up of heredities, long-descended
atoms and particles of his ancestors. This present materialization is
incomplete. We have only brought it down to perhaps the beginning of
this century."

"What do you mean, Colonel!" cried Hawkins, filled with vague alarms by
the old man's awe-compelling words and manner.

"This. We've materialized this burglar's ancestor!"

"Oh, don't--don't say that. It's hideous."

"But it's true, Hawkins, I know it. Look at the facts. This apparition
is distinctly English--note that. It uses good grammar--note that. It
is an Artist--note that. It has the manners and carriage of a
gentleman--note that. Where's your cow-boy? Answer me that."

"Rossmore, this is dreadful--it's too dreadful to think of!"

"Never resurrected a rag of that burglar but the clothes, not a solitary
rag of him but the clothes."

"Colonel, do you really mean--"

The Colonel brought his fist down with emphasis and said:

"I mean exactly this. This materialization was immature, the burglar has
evaded us, this is nothing but a damned ancestor!"

He rose and walked the floor in great excitement.

Hawkins said plaintively:

"It's a bitter disappointment--bitter."

"I know it. I know it, Senator; I feel it as deeply as anybody could.
But we've got to submit--on moral grounds. I need money, but God knows I
am not poor enough or shabby enough to be an accessory to the punishing
of a man's ancestor for crimes committed by that ancestor's posterity."

"But Colonel!" implored Hawkins; "stop and think; don't be rash; you
know it's the only chance we've got to get the money; and besides, the
Bible itself says posterity to the fourth generation shall be punished
for the sins and crimes committed by ancestors four generations back
that hadn't anything to do with them; and so it's only fair to turn the
rule around and make it work both ways."

The Colonel was struck with the strong logic of this position. He strode
up and down, and thought it painfully over. Finally he said:

"There's reason in it; yes, there's reason in it. And so, although it
seems a piteous thing to sweat this poor ancient devil for a burglary he
hadn't the least hand in, still if duty commands I suppose we must give
him up to the authorities."

"I would," said Hawkins, cheered and relieved, "I'd give him up if he
was a thousand ancestors compacted into one."

"Lord bless me, that's just what he is," said Sellers, with something
like a groan, "it's exactly what he is; there's a contribution in
him from every ancestor he ever had. In him there's atoms of priests,
soldiers, crusaders, poets, and sweet and gracious women--all kinds
and conditions of folk who trod this earth in old, old centuries, and
vanished out of it ages ago, and now by act of ours they are summoned
from their holy peace to answer for gutting a one-horse bank away out on
the borders of Cherokee Strip, and it's just a howling outrage!"

"Oh, don't talk like that, Colonel; it takes the heart all out of me,
and makes me ashamed of the part I am proposing to--"

"Wait--I've got it!"

"A saving hope? Shout it out, I am perishing."

"It's perfectly simple; a child would have thought of it. He is all
right, not a flaw in him, as far as I have carried the work. If I've
been able to bring him as far as the beginning of this century, what's
to stop me now? I'll go on and materialize him down to date."

"Land, I never thought of that!" said Hawkins all ablaze with joy again.
"It's the very thing. What a brain you have got! And will he shed the
superfluous arm?"

"He will."

"And lose his English accent?"

"It 