to London,
and had "listed" my soiled linen for the wash. It made quite an imposing
mountain in the corner of the room--fifty-four pieces. I hoped he would
fancy it was the accumulation of a single week. I took up the wash-list,
as if to see that it was all right, and then tossed it on the table,
with pretended forgetfulness. Sure enough, he took it up and ran his
eye along down to the grand total. Then he said, "You get off easy," and
laid it down again.

His gloves were the saddest ruin, but he told me where I could get some
like them. His shoes would hardly hold walnuts without leaking, but he
liked to put his feet up on the mantelpiece and contemplate them.
He wore a dim glass breastpin, which he called a "morphylitic
diamond"--whatever that may mean--and said only two of them had ever
been found--the Emperor of China had the other one.

Afterward, in London, it was a pleasure to me to see this fantastic
vagabond come marching into the lobby of the hotel in his grand-ducal
way, for he always had some new imaginary grandeur to develop--there
was nothing stale about him but his clothes. If he addressed me when
strangers were about, he always raised his voice a little and called me
"Sir Richard," or "General," or "Your Lordship"--and when people began
to stare and look deferential, he would fall to inquiring in a casual
way why I disappointed the Duke of Argyll the night before; and then
remind me of our engagement at the Duke of Westminster's for the
following day. I think that for the time being these things were
realities to him. He once came and invited me to go with him and spend
the evening with the Earl of Warwick at his town house. I said I had
received no formal invitation. He said that that was of no consequence,
the Earl had no formalities for him or his friends. I asked if I could
go just as I was. He said no, that would hardly do; evening dress was
requisite at night in any gentleman's house. He said he would wait while
I dressed, and then we would go to his apartments and I could take a
bottle of champagne and a cigar while he dressed. I was very willing to
see how this enterprise would turn out, so I dressed, and we started to
his lodgings. He said if I didn't mind we would walk. So we tramped some
four miles through the mud and fog, and finally found his "apartments";
they consisted of a single room over a barber's shop in a back street.
Two chairs, a small table, an ancient valise, a wash-basin and pitcher
(both on the floor in a corner), an unmade bed, a fragment of a
looking-glass, and a flower-pot, with a perishing little rose geranium
in it, which he called a century plant, and said it had not bloomed now
for upward of two centuries--given to him by the late Lord
Palmerston--(been offered a prodigious sum for it)--these were
the contents of the room. Also a brass candlestick and a part of a
candle. Rogers lit the candle, and told me to sit down and make myself
at home. He said he hoped I was thirsty, because he would surprise my
palate with an article of champagne that seldom got into a commoner's
system; or would I prefer sherry, or port? Said he had port in bottles
that were swathed in stratified cobwebs, every stratum representing a
generation. And as for his cigars--well, I should judge of them
myself. Then he put his head out at the door and called:

"Sackville!" No answer.

"Hi-Sackville!" No answer.

"Now what the devil can have become of that butler? I never allow a
servant to--Oh, confound that idiot, he's got the keys. Can't get into
the other rooms without the keys."

(I was just wondering at his intrepidity in still keeping up the
delusion of the champagne, and trying to imagine how he was going to get
out of the difficulty.)

Now he stopped calling Sackville and began to call "Anglesy." But
Anglesy didn't come. He said, "This is the second time that that equerry
has been absent without leave. To-morrow I'll discharge him." Now
he began to whoop for "Thomas," but Thomas didn't answer. Then for
"Theodore," but no Theodore replied.

"Well, I give it up," said Rogers. "The servants never expect me at
this hour, and so they're all off on a lark. Might get along without
the equerry and the page, but can't have any wine or cigars without the
butler, and can't dress without my valet."

I offered to help him dress, but he would not hear of it; and besides,
he said he would not feel comfortable unless dressed by a practised
hand. However, he finally concluded that he was such old friends with
the Earl that it would not make any difference how he was dressed. So we
took a cab, he gave the driver some directions, and we started. By and
by we stopped before a large house and got out. I never had seen this
man with a collar on. He now stepped under a lamp and got a venerable
paper collar out of his coat pocket, along with a hoary cravat, and put
them on. He ascended the stoop, and entered. Presently he reappeared,
descended rapidly, and said:

"Come--quick!"

We hurried away, and turned the corner.

"Now we're safe," he said, and took off his collar and cravat and
returned them to his pocket.

"Made a mi