m
up.

It most busted them, but they made up the six thousand clean and clear.

"Say," says the duke, "I got another idea.  Le's go up stairs and count
this money, and then take and _give it to the girls_."

"Good land, duke, lemme hug you!  It's the most dazzling idea 'at ever a
man struck.  You have cert'nly got the most astonishin' head I ever see.
Oh, this is the boss dodge, ther' ain't no mistake 'bout it.  Let 'em
fetch along their suspicions now if they want to?this 'll lay 'em out."

When we got up-stairs everybody gethered around the table, and the king
he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in a pile?twenty
elegant little piles.  Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their
chops.  Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin
to swell himself up for another speech.  He says:

"Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by
them that's left behind in the vale of sorrers.  He has done generous by
these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that's left
fatherless and motherless.  Yes, and we that knowed him knows that he
would a done _more_ generous by 'em if he hadn't ben afeard o' woundin'
his dear William and me.  Now, _wouldn't_ he?  Ther' ain't no question
'bout it in _my_ mind.  Well, then, what kind o' brothers would it be
that 'd stand in his way at sech a time?  And what kind o' uncles would
it be that 'd rob?yes, _rob_?sech poor sweet lambs as these 'at he loved
so at sech a time?  If I know William?and I _think_ I do?he?well, I'll
jest ask him." He turns around and begins to make a lot of signs to
the duke with his hands, and the duke he looks at him stupid and
leather-headed a while; then all of a sudden he seems to catch his
meaning, and jumps for the king, goo-gooing with all his might for joy,
and hugs him about fifteen times before he lets up.  Then the king says,
"I knowed it; I reckon _that 'll_ convince anybody the way _he_ feels
about it.  Here, Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take the money?take it
_all_.  It's the gift of him that lays yonder, cold but joyful."

Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the
duke, and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet.  And
everybody crowded up with the tears in their eyes, and most shook the
hands off of them frauds, saying all the time:

"You _dear_ good souls!?how _lovely_!?how _could_ you!"

Well, then, pretty soon all hands got to talking about the diseased
again, and how good he was, and what a loss he was, and all that; and
before long a big iron-jawed man worked himself in there from outside,
and stood a-listening and looking, and not saying anything; and nobody
saying anything to him either, because the king was talking and they was
all busy listening.  The king was saying?in the middle of something he'd
started in on?

"?they bein' partickler friends o' the diseased.  That's why they're
invited here this evenin'; but tomorrow we want _all_ to come?everybody;
for he respected everybody, he liked everybody, and so it's fitten that
his funeral orgies sh'd be public."

And so he went a-mooning on and on, liking to hear himself talk, and
every little while he fetched in his funeral orgies again, till the duke
he couldn't stand it no more; so he writes on a little scrap of paper,
"_Obsequies_, you old fool," and folds it up, and goes to goo-gooing and
reaching it over people's heads to him.  The king he reads it and puts
it in his pocket, and says:

"Poor William, afflicted as he is, his _heart's_ aluz right.  Asks me
to invite everybody to come to the funeral?wants me to make 'em all
welcome.  But he needn't a worried?it was jest what I was at."

Then he weaves along again, perfectly ca'm, and goes to dropping in his
funeral orgies again every now and then, just like he done before.  And
when he done it the third time he says:

"I say orgies, not because it's the common term, because it
ain't?obsequies bein' the common term?but because orgies is the right
term. Obsequies ain't used in England no more now?it's gone out.  We
say orgies now in England.  Orgies is better, because it means the thing
you're after more exact.  It's a word that's made up out'n the Greek
_orgo_, outside, open, abroad; and the Hebrew _jeesum_, to plant, cover
up; hence in_ter._  So, you see, funeral orgies is an open er public
funeral."

He was the _worst_ I ever struck.  Well, the iron-jawed man he laughed
right in his face.  Everybody was shocked.  Everybody says, "Why,
_doctor_!" and Abner Shackleford says:

"Why, Robinson, hain't you heard the news?  This is Harvey Wilks."

The king he smiled eager, and shoved out his flapper, and says:

"Is it my poor brother's dear good friend and physician?  I?"

"Keep your hands off of me!" says the doctor.  "_You_ talk like an
Englishman, _don't_ you?  It's the worst imitation I ever heard.  _You_
Peter Wilks's brother!  You're a fraud, that's what you are!"

Well, how they all took on!  They crowded around the doctor and tried to
quiet him down, and tried to explain to him and tell him how Harvey 'd
showed in forty ways that he _was_ Ha