 time. A jaded, melancholy man of fifty, barefooted,
     opened the door to me. When he heard my _nom de guerre_ he looked
     more dejected than before. He let me in--pretty reluctantly, I
     thought--and after the customary bacon and beans, black coffee and
     hot whiskey, I took a pipe. This sorrowful man had not said three
     words up to this time. Now he spoke up and said, in the voice of
     one who is secretly suffering, "You're the fourth--I'm going to
     move." "The fourth what!" said I. "The fourth littery man that has
     been here in twenty-four hours--I'm going to move." "You don't tell
     me!" said I; "who were the others!" "Mr. Longfellow, Mr. Emerson
     and Mr. Oliver Wendell Holmes--consound the lot!"

     You can easily believe I was interested. I supplicated--three hot
     whiskeys did the rest--and finally the melancholy miner began. Said
     he--

     "They came here just at dark yesterday evening, and I let them in
     of course. Said they were going to the Yosemite. They were a rough
     lot, but that's nothing; everybody looks rough that travels afoot.
     Mr. Emerson was a seedy little bit of a chap, red-headed. Mr.
     Holmes as fat as a balloon; he weighed as much as three hundred,
     and double chins all the way down to his stomach. Mr. Longfellow
     built like a prize-fighter. His head was cropped and bristly, like
     as if he had a wig made of hair-brushes. His nose lay straight down
     his face, like a finger with the end joint tilted up. They had been
     drinking, I could see that. And what queer talk they used! Mr.
     Holmes inspected this cabin, then he took me by the buttonhole, and
     says he--


     "'Through the deep cares of thought
     I hear a voice that sings,
     Build thee more stately mansions,
     O my soul!'


     "Says I, 'I can't afford it, Mr. Holmes, and moreover I don't want
     to.' Blamed if I liked it pretty well, either, coming from a
     stranger, that way. However, I started to get out my bacon and
     beans, when Mr. Emerson came and looked on awhile, and then he
     takes me aside by the buttonhole and says--


     "'Give me agates for my meat;
     Give me cantharids to eat;
     From air and ocean bring me foods,
     From all zones and altitudes.'


     "Says I, 'Mr. Emerson, if you'll excuse me, this ain't no hotel.'
     You see it sort of riled me--I warn't used to the ways of littery
     swells. But I went on a-sweating over my work, and next comes Mr.
     Longfellow and buttonholes me, and interrupts me. Says he,


     "'Honor be to Mudjekeewis!
     You shall hear how Pau-Puk-Keewis--'


     "But I broke in, and says I, 'Beg your pardon, Mr. Longfellow, if
     you'll be so kind as to hold your yawp for about five minutes and
     let me get this grub ready, you'll do me proud.' Well, sir, after
     they'd filled up I set out the jug. Mr. Holmes looks at it and then
     he fires up all of a sudden and yells--


     "'Flash out a stream of blood-red wine!
     For I would drink to other days.'


     "By George, I was getting kind of worked up. I don't deny it, I was
     getting kind of worked up. I turns to Mr. Holmes, and says I,
     'Looky here, my fat friend, I'm a-running this shanty, and if the
     court knows herself, you'll take whiskey straight or you'll go
     dry.' Them's the very words I said to him. Now I don't want to sass
     such famous littery people, but you see they kind of forced me.
     There ain't nothing onreasonable 'bout me; I don't mind a passel of
     guests a-treadin' on my tail three or four times, but when it comes
     to _standing_ on it it's different, 'and if the court knows
     herself,' I says, 'you'll take whiskey straight or you'll go dry.'
     Well, between drinks they'd swell around the cabin and strike
     attitudes and spout; and pretty soon they got out a greasy old deck
     and went to playing euchre at ten cents a corner--on trust. I began
     to notice some pretty suspicious things. Mr. Emerson dealt, looked
     at his hand, shook his head, says--


     "'I am the doubter and the doubt--'


     and ca'mly bunched the hands and went to shuffling for a new
     layout. Says he--


     "'They reckon ill who leave me out;
     They know not well the subtle ways I keep.
     I pass and deal _again_!'


     Hang'd if he didn't go ahead and do it, too! O, he was a cool one!
     Well, in about a minute, things were running pretty tight, but all
     of a sudden I see by Mr. Emerson's eye he judged he had 'em. He had
     already corralled two tricks and each of the others one. So now he
     kind of lifts a little in his chair and says--


     "'I tire of globes and aces!--
     Too long the game is played!'


     --and down he fetched a right bower. Mr. Longfellow smiles as sweet
     as pie and says--


     "'Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend,
     For the lesson thou hast taught,'


     --and blamed if he didn't down with _another_ right bower! Emerson
     claps his hand on his bowie, Longfellow claps his on his revolver,
     and I 