olen"--The late Lord Berkeley Sally's hero-- "The
shady devil [Doubt] had knifed her"

CHAPTER XXIII.

Tracy writes to his father--The rival houses to be united by his
marriage to Sally Sellers--The earl decides to "step over and take a
hand"--"The course of true love," etc., as usual--"You an earl's son!
show me the signs"

CHAPTER XXIV.

Time drags heavily for all concerned--Success of "Pigs in the
Clover"--Sellers is "fixed" for his temperance lecture-- Colonel and
Mrs. Sellers start for Europe--Interview of Hawkins and Sally--Tracy an
impostor

CHAPTER XXV.

Telegram: "She's going to marry the materializee"--Interview between
Tracy and Sally--Arrival of the usurping earl-- "You can have him if
you'll take him"--A quiet wedding at the Towers--Sellers does not join
the party to England-- Preparing to furnish climates to order

APPENDIX.

The weather in this book







LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

  "He was constructing what seemed to be some kind of frail mechanical toy."
  "It must try your patience pretty sharply sometimes."
  One-armed Pete
  "Father, I am going to shake hands with Major Hawkins."
  "Must he go down in his spectral night dress?"
  "Clah to goodness it's de fust time I've sot eyes on 'em."
  Parker, assistant editor of the Democrat
  "How do you do?"
  "Both were so paralyzed with joy."
  "It had already happened."
  "His thoughts had been far away from these things."
  "Fool or no fool, he would grab it."
  "No. 5 started a laugh."
  Capt. Saltmarsh and brother of the brush
  Wasted sewer gas
  "Eastward with that great light transfiguring their faces."
  It was a violent case of mutual love at first sight
  "Time dragged heavily for both, now."
  "Oh, my God, she's kissing it!"
  "The shady devil had knifed her."
  "You an earl's son! Show me the signs."
  "My father!"
  "Finally there was a quiet wedding at the Towers."





EXPLANATORY

The Colonel Mulberry Sellers here re-introduced to the public is the
same person who appeared as Eschol Sellers in the first edition of the
tale entitled "The Gilded Age," years ago, and as Beriah Sellers in the
subsequent editions of the same book, and finally as Mulberry Sellers in
the drama played afterward by John T. Raymond.

The name was changed from Eschol to Beriah to accommodate an Eschol
Sellers who rose up out of the vasty deeps of uncharted space and
preferred his request--backed by threat of a libel suit--then went his
way appeased, and came no more. In the play Beriah had to be dropped to
satisfy another member of the race, and Mulberry was substituted in
the hope that the objectors would be tired by that time and let it pass
unchallenged. So far it has occupied the field in peace; therefore we
chance it again, feeling reasonably safe, this time, under shelter of
the statute of limitations.

MARK TWAIN. Hartford, 1891.





THE WEATHER IN THIS BOOK.

No weather will be found in this book. This is an attempt to pull a
book through without weather. It being the first attempt of the kind in
fictitious literature, it may prove a failure, but it seemed worth the
while of some dare-devil person to try it, and the author was in just
the mood.

Many a reader who wanted to read a tale through was not able to do
it because of delays on account of the weather. Nothing breaks up an
author's progress like having to stop every few pages to fuss-up the
weather. Thus it is plain that persistent intrusions of weather are bad
for both reader and author.

Of course weather is necessary to a narrative of human experience. That
is conceded. But it ought to be put where it will not be in the way;
where it will not interrupt the flow of the narrative. And it ought
to be the ablest weather that can be had, not ignorant, poor-quality,
amateur weather. Weather is a literary specialty, and no untrained hand
can turn out a good article of it. The present author can do only a few
trifling ordinary kinds of weather, and he cannot do those very good. So
it has seemed wisest to borrow such weather as is necessary for the book
from qualified and recognized experts--giving credit, of course. This
weather will be found over in the back part of the book, out of the way.
See Appendix. The reader is requested to turn over and help himself from
time to time as he goes along.





CHAPTER I.

It is a matchless morning in rural England. On a fair hill we see a
majestic pile, the ivied walls and towers of Cholmondeley Castle, huge
relic and witness of the baronial grandeurs of the Middle Ages. This is
one of the seats of the Earl of Rossmore, K. G. G. C. B. K. C. M. G.,
etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., who possesses twenty-two thousand acres
of English land, owns a parish in London with two thousand houses on its
lease-roll, and struggles comfortably along on an income of two hundred
thousand pounds a year. The father and founder of this proud old line
was William the Conqueror his very self; the mother of it was not
inventoried in history by name, she being merely a random episode and
inconsequential, like the tanner's daughter of Falaise.

In a breakfast room of the castle on this breezy fine morning