 for I
don't believe in you myself."

The young man was quite willing. I found no fault in him. On the
contrary, I believed in him at once, and was solicitous to heal the
wounds inflicted by Dolby's too frank incredulity; therefore I did
everything I could think of to cheer him up and entertain him and make
him feel at home and comfortable. I spun many yarns; among others the
tale of Jim Wolf and the Cats. Learning that he had done something in a
small way in literature, I offered to try to find a market for him in
that line. His face lighted joyfully at that, and he said that if I
could only sell a small manuscript to Tom Hood's Annual for him it would
be the happiest event of his sad life and he would hold me in grateful
remembrance always. That was a most pleasant night for three of us, but
Dolby was disgusted and sarcastic.

Next week the baby died. Meantime I had spoken to Tom Hood and gained
his sympathy. The young man had sent his manuscript to him, and the very
day the child died the money for the MS. came--three guineas. The young
man came with a poor little strip of crape around his arm and thanked
me, and said that nothing could have been more timely than that money,
and that his poor little wife was grateful beyond words for the service
I had rendered. He wept, and in fact Stoddard and I wept with him, which
was but natural. Also Dolby wept. At least he wiped his eyes and wrung
out his handkerchief, and sobbed stertorously and made other exaggerated
shows of grief. Stoddard and I were ashamed of Dolby, and tried to make
the young man understand that he meant no harm, it was only his way. The
young man said sadly that he was not minding it, his grief was too deep
for other hurts; that he was only thinking of the funeral, and the heavy
expenses which--

We cut that short and told him not to trouble about it, leave it all to
us; send the bills to Mr. Dolby and--

"Yes," said Dolby, with a mock tremor in his voice, "send them to me,
and I will pay them. What, are you going? You must not go alone in your
worn and broken condition; Mr. Stoddard and I will go with you. Come,
Stoddard. We will comfort the bereaved mamma and get a lock of the
baby's hair."

It was shocking. We were ashamed of him again, and said so. But he was
not disturbed. He said--

"Oh, I know this kind, the woods are full of them. I'll make this offer:
if he will show me his family I will give him twenty pounds. Come!" The
young man said he would not remain to be insulted; and he said
good-night and took his hat. But Dolby said he would go with him, and
stay by him until he found the family. Stoddard went along to soothe the
young man and modify Dolby. They drove across the river and all over
Southwark, but did not find the family. At last the young man confessed
there wasn't any.

The thing he sold to Tom Hood's Annual was "Jim and the Cats." And he
did not put my name to it.

So that small tale was sold three times. I am selling it again, now. It
is one of the best properties I have come across.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (_To be Continued._)

FOOTNOTES:

[9] The colored butler.

[10] See "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."

[11] Used in "Huck Finn," I think.

[12] Used in "Tom Sawyer."




NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXV.

MAY 17, 1907.


CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XVIII.

BY MARK TWAIN.


[_Dictated December 21, 1906._] I wish to insert here some pages of
Susy's Biography of me in which the biographer does not scatter,
according to her custom, but sticks pretty steadily to a single subject
until she has fought it to a finish:


     _Feb. 27, '86._--Last summer while we were in Elmira an article
     came out in the "Christian Union" by name "What ought he to have
     done" treating of the government of children, or rather giving an
     account of a fathers battle with his little baby boy, by the mother
     of the child and put in the form of a question as to whether the
     father disciplined the child corectly or not, different people
     wrote their opinions of the fathers behavior, and told what they
     thought he should have done. Mamma had long known how to disciplin
     children, for in fact the bringing up of children had been one of
     her specialties for many years. She had a great many theories, but
     one of them was, that if a child was big enough to be nauty, it was
     big enough to be whipped and here we all agreed with her. I
     remember one morning when Dr. ---- came up to the farm he had a
     long discussion with mamma, upon the following topic. Mamma gave
     _this_ as illustrative of one important rule for punishing a child.
     She said we will suppose the boy has thrown a handkerchief onto the
     floor, I tell him to pick it up, he refuses. I tell him again, he
     refuses. Then I say you must either pick up the handkerchief or
     have a whipping. My theory is never to make a child have a whipping
     and pick up the handkerchief too. I say "If you do not pick it up,
     I must punish you," if he doesn't he gets the whipping, but _I