ghtedness could be cured by the "Mind Cure" and
     that she was going to have me try the treatment any way, there
     could be no harm in it, and there might be great good. If her plan
     succeeds there certainly will be a great deal in "Mind Cure" to my
     oppinion, for I am very near sighted and so is mamma, and I never
     expected there could be any more cure for it than for blindness,
     but now I dont know but what theres a cure for _that_.


It was a disappointment; her near-sightedness remained with her to the
end. She was born with it, no doubt; yet, strangely enough, she must
have been four years old, and possibly five, before we knew of its
existence. It is not easy to understand how that could have happened. I
discovered the defect by accident. I was half-way up the hall stairs one
day at home, and was leading her by the hand, when I glanced back
through the open door of the dining-room and saw what I thought she
would recognise as a pretty picture. It was "Stray Kit," the slender,
the graceful, the sociable, the beautiful, the incomparable, the cat of
cats, the tortoise-shell, curled up as round as a wheel and sound asleep
on the fire-red cover of the dining-table, with a brilliant stream of
sunlight falling across her. I exclaimed about it, but Susy said she
could see nothing there, neither cat nor table-cloth. The distance was
so slight--not more than twenty feet, perhaps--that if it had been any
other child I should not have credited the statement.

_From the Biography._


     _March 14th, '86._--Clara sprained her ankle, a little while ago,
     by running into a tree, when coasting, and while she was unable to
     walk with it she played solotaire with cards a great deal. While
     Clara was sick and papa saw her play solotaire so much, he got very
     much interested in the game, and finally began to play it himself a
     little, then Jean took it up, and at last _mamma_, even played it
     ocasionally; Jean's and papa's love for it rapidly increased, and
     now Jean brings the cards every night to the table and papa and
     mamma help her play, and before dinner is at an end, papa has
     gotten a separate pack of cards, and is playing alone, with great
     interest. Mamma and Clara next are made subject to the contagious
     solatair, and there are four solotaireans at the table; while you
     hear nothing but "Fill up the place" etc. It is dreadful! after
     supper Clara goes into the library, and gets a little red mahogany
     table, and placing it under the gas fixture seats herself and
     begins to play again, then papa follows with another table of the
     same discription, and they play solatair till bedtime.

     We have just had our Prince and Pauper pictures taken; two groups
     and some little single ones. The groups (the Interview and Lady
     Jane Grey scene) were pretty good, the lady Jane scene was perfect,
     just as pretty as it could be, the Interview was not so good; and
     two of the little single pictures were very good indeed, but one
     was very bad. Yet on the whole we think they were a success.

     Papa has done a great deal in his life I think, that is good, and
     very remarkable, but I think if he had had the advantages with
     which he could have developed the gifts which he has made no use of
     in writing his books, or in any other way for other peoples
     pleasure and benefit outside of his own family and intimate
     friends, he could have done _more_ than he has and a great deal
     more even. He is known to the public as a humorist, but he has much
     more in him that is earnest than that is humorous. He has a keen
     sense of the ludicrous, notices funny stories and incidents knows
     how to tell them, to improve upon them, and does not forget them.
     He has been through a great many of the funny adventures related in
     "Tom Sawyer" and in "Huckleberry Finn," _himself_ and he lived among
     just such boys, and in just such villages all the days of his early
     life. His "Prince and Pauper" is his most orriginal, and best
     production; it shows the most of any of his books what kind of
     pictures are in his mind, usually. Not that the pictures of England
     in the 16th Century and the adventures of a little prince and
     pauper are the kind of things he mainly thinks about; but that
     _that_ book, and those pictures represent the train of thought and
     imagination he would be likely to be thinking of to-day, to-morrow,
     or next day, more nearly than those given in "Tom Sawyer" or
     "Huckleberry Finn."[13]

     Papa can make exceedingly bright jokes, and he enjoys funny things,
     and when he is with people he jokes and laughs a great deal, but
     still he is more interested in earnest books and earnest subjects
     to talk upon, than in humorous ones.[14]

     When we are all alone at home, nine times out of ten, he talks
     about some very earnest subjects, (with an ocasional joke thrown
     in) and he a good deal more often talks upon such subjects than
     upon the oth