 of the Chattahoochee or the stream
of Sawney's brook; sweet will be the song of death to your Ambulinia. My
ghost shall visit you in the smiles of Paradise, and tell your high
fame to the minds of that region, which is far more preferable than this
lonely cell. My heart shall speak for thee till the latest hour; I know
faint and broken are the sounds of sorrow, yet our souls, Elfonzo, shall
hear the peaceful songs together. One bright name shall be ours on high,
if we are not permitted to be united here; bear in mind that I still
cherish my old sentiments, and the poet will mingle the names of Elfonzo
and Ambulinia in the tide of other days." "Fly, Elfonzo," said the
voices of his united band, "to the wounded heart of your beloved. All
enemies shall fall beneath thy sword. Fly through the clefts, and the
dim spark shall sleep in death." Elfonzo rushes forward and strikes
his shield against the door, which was barricaded, to prevent any
intercourse. His brave sons throng around him. The people pour along
the streets, both male and female, to prevent or witness the melancholy
scene.

"To arms, to arms!" cried Elfonzo; "here is a victory to be won, a prize
to be gained that is more to me that the whole world beside." "It
cannot be done tonight," said Mr. Valeer. "I bear the clang of death; my
strength and armor shall prevail. My Ambulinia shall rest in this hall
until the break of another day, and if we fall, we fall together. If we
die, we die clinging to our tattered rights, and our blood alone shall
tell the mournful tale of a murdered daughter and a ruined father." Sure
enough, he kept watch all night, and was successful in defending his
house and family. The bright morning gleamed upon the hills, night
vanished away, the Major and his associates felt somewhat ashamed that
they had not been as fortunate as they expected to have been; however,
they still leaned upon their arms in dispersed groups; some were walking
the streets, others were talking in the Major's behalf. Many of
the citizen suspended business, as the town presented nothing but
consternation. A novelty that might end in the destruction of some
worthy and respectable citizens. Mr. Valeer ventured in the streets,
though not without being well armed. Some of his friends congratulated
him on the decided stand he had taken, and hoped he would settle the
matter amicably with Elfonzo, without any serious injury. "Me," he
replied, "what, me, condescend to fellowship with a coward, and a
low-lived, lazy, undermining villain? no, gentlemen, this cannot be; I
had rather be borne off, like the bubble upon the dark blue ocean, with
Ambulinia by my side, than to have him in the ascending or descending
line of relationship. Gentlemen," continued he, "if Elfonzo is so much
of a distinguished character, and is so learned in the fine arts, why do
you not patronize such men? why not introduce him into your families, as
a gentleman of taste and of unequaled magnanimity? why are you so very
anxious that he should become a relative of mine? Oh, gentlemen, I fear
you yet are tainted with the curiosity of our first parents, who were
beguiled by the poisonous kiss of an old ugly serpent, and who, for one
APPLE, DAMNED all mankind. I wish to divest myself, as far as possible,
of that untutored custom. I have long since learned that the perfection
of wisdom, and the end of true philosophy, is to proportion our wants to
our possessions, our ambition to our capacities; we will then be a happy
and a virtuous people." Ambulinia was sent off to prepare for a long and
tedious journey. Her new acquaintances had been instructed by her father
how to treat her, and in what manner, and to keep the anticipated visit
entirely secret. Elfonzo was watching the movements of everybody; some
friends had told him of the plot that was laid to carry off Ambulinia.
At night, he rallied some two or three of his forces, and went silently
along to the stately mansion; a faint and glimmering light showed
through the windows; lightly he steps to the door; there were many
voices rallying fresh in fancy's eye; he tapped the shutter; it was
opened instantly, and he beheld once more, seated beside several ladies,
the hope of all his toils; he rushed toward her, she rose from her seat,
rejoicing; he made one mighty grasp, when Ambulinia exclaimed, "Huzza
for Major Elfonzo! I will defend myself and you, too, with this
conquering instrument I hold in my hand; huzza, I say, I now invoke
time's broad wing to shed around us some dewdrops of verdant spring."

But the hour had not come for this joyous reunion; her friends struggled
with Elfonzo for some time, and finally succeeded in arresting her from
his hands. He dared not injure them, because they were matrons whose
courage needed no spur; she was snatched from the arms of Elfonzo, with
so much eagerness, and yet with such expressive signification, that he
calmly withdrew from this lovely enterprise, with an ardent hope that he
should be lulled to repose by the zephyrs which whispered peace to his
soul. Several long days and night passed unmolested, all seemed to have
g