n.


(Keeps a macaroni store in Venice, at the old family stand.)


It is the neatest thing in still life I have seen for years.

Rosa Bonheur.


The smile may be almost called unique. Bismarck.


I never saw such character portrayed in a picture face before. De
Mellville.


There is a benignant simplicity about the execution of this work which
warms the heart toward it as much, full as much, as it fascinates the
eye. Landseer.


One cannot see it without longing to contemplate the artist.

Frederick William.


Send me the entire edition--together with the plate and the original
portrait--and name your own price. And--would you like to come over
and stay awhile with Napoleon at Wilhelmshohe? It shall not cost you a
cent. William III.






DOES THE RACE OF MAN LOVE A LORD?



Often a quite assified remark becomes sanctified by use and petrified by
custom; it is then a permanency, its term of activity a geologic period.



The day after the arrival of Prince Henry I met an English friend, and
he rubbed his hands and broke out with a remark that was charged to the
brim with joy--joy that was evidently a pleasant salve to an old sore
place:

"Many a time I've had to listen without retort to an old saying that is
irritatingly true, and until now seemed to offer no chance for a return
jibe: 'An Englishman does dearly love a lord'; but after this I shall
talk back, and say, 'How about the Americans?'"

It is a curious thing, the currency that an idiotic saying can get. The
man that first says it thinks he has made a discovery. The man he
says it to, thinks the same. It departs on its travels, is received
everywhere with admiring acceptance, and not only as a piece of rare and
acute observation, but as being exhaustively true and profoundly wise;
and so it presently takes its place in the world's list of recognized
and established wisdoms, and after that no one thinks of examining it to
see whether it is really entitled to its high honors or not. I call to
mind instances of this in two well-established proverbs, whose dullness
is not surpassed by the one about the Englishman and his love for a
lord: one of them records the American's Adoration of the Almighty
Dollar, the other the American millionaire-girl's ambition to trade cash
for a title, with a husband thrown in.

It isn't merely the American that adores the Almighty Dollar, it is the
human race. The human race has always adored the hatful of shells, or
the bale of calico, or the half-bushel of brass rings, or the handful of
steel fish-hooks, or the houseful of black wives, or the zareba full of
cattle, or the two-score camels and asses, or the factory, or the farm,
or the block of buildings, or the railroad bonds, or the bank stock, or
the hoarded cash, or--anything that stands for wealth and consideration
and independence, and can secure to the possessor that most precious of
all things, another man's envy. It was a dull person that invented the
idea that the American's devotion to the dollar is more strenuous than
another's.

Rich American girls do buy titles, but they did not invent that idea;
it had been worn threadbare several hundred centuries before America
was discovered. European girls still exploit it as briskly as ever;
and, when a title is not to be had for the money in hand, they buy the
husband without it. They must put up the "dot," or there is no trade.
The commercialization of brides is substantially universal, except in
America. It exists with us, to some little extent, but in no degree
approaching a custom.

"The Englishman dearly loves a lord."

What is the soul and source of this love? I think the thing could be
more correctly worded:

"The human race dearly envies a lord."

That is to say, it envies the lord's place. Why? On two accounts, I
think: its Power and its Conspicuousness.

Where Conspicuousness carries with it a Power which, by the light of our
own observation and experience, we are able to measure and comprehend, I
think our envy of the possessor is as deep and as passionate as is
that of any other nation. No one can care less for a lord than the
backwoodsman, who has had no personal contact with lords and has seldom
heard them spoken of; but I will not allow that any Englishman has a
profounder envy of a lord than has the average American who has lived
long years in a European capital and fully learned how immense is the
position the lord occupies.

Of any ten thousand Americans who eagerly gather, at vast inconvenience,
to get a glimpse of Prince Henry, all but a couple of hundred will be
there out of an immense curiosity; they are burning up with desire to
see a personage who is so much talked about. They envy him; but it is
Conspicuousness they envy mainly, not the Power that is lodged in his
royal quality and position, for they have but a vague and spectral
knowledge and appreciation of that; though their environment and
associations they have been accustomed to regard such things lightly,
and as not being very real; consequently, they are not able to value
them enough to consumingly envy them.

But, whenever an American (or other human 