ll minor ones, and must be
attended to with his best promptness and energy, at whatsoever cost to
his affections or his convenience. And first of all a man's duties
is his duty to his own honor--he must keep that spotless. Mine is
threatened. When I was feeling sure of my imminent future solidity, I
forwarded to the Czar of Russia--perhaps prematurely--an offer for the
purchase of Siberia, naming a vast sum. Since then an episode has
warned me that the method by which I was expecting to acquire this
money--materialization upon a scale of limitless magnitude--is marred
by a taint of temporary uncertainty. His imperial majesty may accept
my offer at any moment. If this should occur now, I should find myself
painfully embarrassed, in fact financially inadequate. I could not take
Siberia. This would become known, and my credit would suffer.

Recently my private hours have been dark indeed, but the sun shines
again now; I see my way; I shall be able to meet my obligation, and
without having to ask an extension of the stipulated time, I think. This
grand new idea of mine--the sublimest I have ever conceived, will save
me whole, I am sure. I am leaving for San Francisco this moment, to test
it, by the help of the great Lick telescope. Like all of my more notable
discoveries and inventions, it is based upon hard, practical scientific
laws; all other bases are unsound and hence untrustworthy. In brief,
then, I have conceived the stupendous idea of reorganizing the climates
of the earth according to the desire of the populations interested.
That is to say, I will furnish climates to order, for cash or negotiable
paper, taking the old climates in part payment, of course, at a fair
discount, where they are in condition to be repaired at small cost and
let out for hire to poor and remote communities not able to afford a
good climate and not caring for an expensive one for mere display.
My studies have convinced me that the regulation of climates and the
breeding of new varieties at will from the old stock is a feasible
thing. Indeed I am convinced that it has been done before; done in
prehistoric times by now forgotten and unrecorded civilizations.
Everywhere I find hoary evidences of artificial manipulation of climates
in bygone times. Take the glacial period. Was that produced by accident?
Not at all; it was done for money. I have a thousand proofs of it, and
will some day reveal them.

I will confide to you an outline of my idea. It is to utilize the
spots on the sun--get control of them, you understand, and apply the
stupendous energies which they wield to beneficent purposes in the
reorganizing of our climates. At present they merely make trouble and do
harm in the evoking of cyclones and other kinds of electric storms; but
once under humane and intelligent control this will cease and they will
become a boon to man.

I have my plan all mapped out, whereby I hope and expect to acquire
complete and perfect control of the sun-spots, also details of the
method whereby I shall employ the same commercially; but I will not
venture to go into particulars before the patents shall have been
issued. I shall hope and expect to sell shop-rights to the minor
countries at a reasonable figure and supply a good business article
of climate to the great empires at special rates, together with
fancy brands for coronations, battles and other great and particular
occasions. There are billions of money in this enterprise, no expensive
plant is required, and I shall begin to realize in a few days--in a
few weeks at furthest. I shall stand ready to pay cash for Siberia
the moment it is delivered, and thus save my honor and my credit. I am
confident of this.

I would like you to provide a proper outfit and start north as soon as
I telegraph you, be it night or be it day. I wish you to take up all
the country stretching away from the north pole on all sides for many
degrees south, and buy Greenland and Iceland at the best figure you
can get now while they are cheap. It is my intention to move one of the
tropics up there and transfer the frigid zone to the equator. I will
have the entire Arctic Circle in the market as a summer resort next
year, and will use the surplusage of the old climate, over and above
what can be utilized on the equator, to reduce the temperature of
opposition resorts. But I have said enough to give you an idea of
the prodigious nature of my scheme and the feasible and enormously
profitable character of it. I shall join all you happy people in England
as soon as I shall have sold out some of my principal climates and
arranged with the Czar about Siberia.

Meantime, watch for a sign from me. Eight days from now, we shall be
wide asunder; for I shall be on the border of the Pacific, and you far
out on the Atlantic, approaching England. That day, if I am alive and my
sublime discovery is proved and established, I will send you greeting,
and my messenger shall deliver it where you are, in the solitudes of
the sea; for I will waft a vast sun-spot across the disk like drifting
smoke, and you will know it for my love-sign, and will say "Mulberry