Produced by David Widger. Additional proofing was done by Trevor Carlson





THE AMERICAN CLAIMANT

by Mark Twain

1892






CONTENTS



CHAPTER I.

The Earl of Rossmore vs. the American Claimant--Viscount Berkeley
proposes to change places with the Claimant-- The Claimant's
letter--Lord Berkeley decides to visit America

CHAPTER II.

Colonel Mulberry Sellers and his art gallery--He receives a visit from
Washington Hawkins--Talking over old times --Washington informs the
colonel that he is the congressional delegate from Cherokee Strip.

CHAPTER III.

Mrs. Sellers pronounces the colonel "the same old scheming, generous,
good-hearted, moonshiny, hopeful, no-account failure he always
was"--He takes in Dan'l and Jinny-- The colonel originates "Pigs in
the Clover"--He offers one of his art treasures to propitiate
Suggs--One-armed Pete; the bank thief

CHAPTER IV.

A Yankee makes an offer for "Pigs in the Clover"--By the death of a
relative Sellers becomes the rightful Earl of Rossmore and consequently
the American Clairnant-- Gwendolen is sent for from school--The remains
of the late Claimant and brother to be shipped to England-- Hawkins and
Sellers nail the hatchments on "Rossmore Towers"

CHAPTER V.

Gwendolen's letter--Her arrival at home--Hawkins is introduced, to his
great pleasure--Communication from the bank thief-- Hawkins and Sellers
have to wait ten days longer before getting the reward--Viscount
Berkeley and the late Claimant's remains start simultaneously from
England and America

CHAPTER VI.

Arrival of the remains of late Claimant and brother in England --The
usurping earl officiates as chief mourner, and they are laid with
their kindred in Cholmondeley church--Sally Sellers a gifted
costume-designer--Another communication from the bank thief--Locating
him in the New Gadsby-- The colonel's glimpse of one--armed Pete in the
elevator-- Arrival of Viscount Berkeley at the same hotel

CHAPTER VII.

Viscount Berkeley jots down his "impressions" to date with a quill
pen--The destruction of the New Gadsby by fire-- Berkeley loses his
bearings and escapes with his journaled "impressions" only--Discovery
and hasty donning of one-armed Pete's abandoned wardrobe--Glowing and
affecting account in the morning papers of the heroic death of the heir
of Rossmore--He will take a new name and start out "incog"

CHAPTER VIII. The colonel's grief at the loss of both Berkeley and
one-armed Pete--Materialization--Breaking the news to the family-- The
colonel starts to identify and secure a body (or ashes) to send to the
bereaved father

CHAPTER IX.

The usual actress and her diamonds in the hotel fire--The colonel
secures three baskets of ashes--Mrs. Sellers forbids their lying in
state--Generous hatchments--The ashes to be sent only when the earl
sends for them

CHAPTER X.

Lord Berkeley deposits the $500 found in his appropriated
clothes--Attends "Mechanics' Debating Club"--Berkeley (alias Tracy) is
glad he came to this country

CHAPTER XI.

No work for Tracy--Cheaper lodgings secured--Sleeping on the roof--"My
daughter Hattie"--Tracy receives further "impressions" from Hattie
(otherwise "Puss")--Mr. Barrow appears--And offers to help Tracy find
work

CHAPTER XII.

A boarding--house dinner--"No money, no dinner" for Mr. Brady--"How
did you come to mount that hat?"--A glimpse of (the supposed) one-armed
Pete--Extract from Tracy's diary

CHAPTER XIII. Tracy and trades-unions--Unpopularity with fellow-boarders
--Which changes to popularity on his punishing Allen-- The cablegram

CHAPTER XIV.

"Mechanics' Debating Club" again--Tracy is comforted by Barrow's
remarks--"Fool or no fool, he would grab it" --"Earldom! oh, yes, take
it if it offers"

CHAPTER XV.

"You forgot to pay your board"--"I've been robbed "--Mr. Allen among
the missing, likewise other things--The cablegram: "Thanks"--Despair of
Tracy--"You've got to amuse your mind"

CHAPTER XVI. The collaborative art collection--The artists--"The
cannon's our trademark"--Tracy's mind is amused

CHAPTER XVII. No further cablegram--"If those ghastly artists want
a confederate, I'm their man"--Tracy taken into
partnership--Disappointments of materialization -- The phonograph
adapted to marine service --Utilization of wasted sewer gas

CHAPTER XVIII.

The colonel's project to set Russia free--"I am going to buy
Siberia"--The materializee turns up--Being an artist he is invited to
restore the colonel's collection--Which he forthwith begins

CHAPTER XIX. The perplexities and nobilities of materialization--The
materializee eats a couple of apples--Horror of Hawkins and Sellers--It
must be a mistake"

CHAPTER XX.

Tracy's perplexities with regard to the Claimant's sanity-- The Claimant
interviews him--Sally Sellers meets Tracy --A violent case of love at
first sight--Pinks

CHAPTER XXI.

Empty painting; empty millinerizing--Tracy's work satisfactory--
Sellers's new picture of Lord Berkeley--"He is a wobbler"-- The
unsuccessful dinner--parties--"They flung their arms about each other's
necks"

CHAPTER XXII.

"The materializing has got to stop where it is"--Sally Sellers
repudiates "Lady Gwend