tention
or even win the affections of her whose graceful manners had almost made
him a slave to every bewitching look that fell from her eyes. Leos made
several attempts to tell her of his fair prospects--how much he loved
her, and how much it would add to his bliss if he could but think she
would be willing to share these blessings with him; but, choked by his
undertaking, he made himself more like an inactive drone than he did
like one who bowed at beauty's shrine.

Elfonzo again wends his way to the stately walls and new-built village.
He now determines to see the end of the prophesy which had been foretold
to him. The clouds burst from his sight; he believes if he can but see
his Ambulinia, he can open to her view the bloody altars that have
been misrepresented to stigmatize his name. He knows that her breast is
transfixed with the sword of reason, and ready at all times to detect
the hidden villainy of her enemies. He resolves to see her in her own
home, with the consoling theme: "'I can but perish if I go.' Let
the consequences be what they may," said he, "if I die, it shall be
contending and struggling for my own rights."

Night had almost overtaken him when he arrived in town. Colonel Elder, a
noble-hearted, high-minded, and independent man, met him at his door as
usual, and seized him by the hand. "Well, Elfonzo," said the Colonel,
"how does the world use you in your efforts?" "I have no objection to
the world," said Elfonzo, "but the people are rather singular in some of
their opinions." "Aye, well," said the Colonel, "you must remember that
creation is made up of many mysteries; just take things by the right
handle; be always sure you know which is the smooth side before you
attempt your polish; be reconciled to your fate, be it what it may;
and never find fault with your condition, unless your complaining will
benefit it. Perseverance is a principle that should be commendable
in those who have judgment to govern it. I should never had been so
successful in my hunting excursions had I waited till the deer, by some
magic dream, had been drawn to the muzzle of the gun before I made an
attempt to fire at the game that dared my boldness in the wild forest.
The great mystery in hunting seems to be--a good marksman, a resolute
mind, a fixed determination, and my world for it, you will never return
home without sounding your horn with the breath of a new victory. And
so with every other undertaking. Be confident that your ammunition is of
the right kind--always pull your trigger with a steady hand, and so soon
as you perceive a calm, touch her off, and the spoils are yours."

This filled him with redoubled vigor, and he set out with a stronger
anxiety than ever to the home of Ambulinia. A few short steps soon
brought him to the door, half out of breath. He rapped gently.
Ambulinia, who sat in the parlor alone, suspecting Elfonzo was near,
ventured to the door, opened it, and beheld the hero, who stood in an
humble attitude, bowed gracefully, and as they caught each other's looks
the light of peace beamed from the eyes of Ambulinia. Elfonzo caught the
expression; a halloo of smothered shouts ran through every vein, and for
the first time he dared to impress a kiss upon her cheek. The scene was
overwhelming; had the temptation been less animating, he would not have
ventured to have acted so contrary to the desired wish of his Ambulinia;
but who could have withstood the irrestistable temptation! What society
condemns the practice but a cold, heartless, uncivilized people that
know nothing of the warm attachments of refined society? Here the dead
was raised to his long-cherished hopes, and the lost was found. Here
all doubt and danger were buried in the vortex of oblivion; sectional
differences no longer disunited their opinions; like the freed bird from
the cage, sportive claps its rustling wings, wheels about to heaven in a
joyful strain, and raises its notes to the upper sky. Ambulinia insisted
upon Elfonzo to be seated, and give her a history of his unnecessary
absence; assuring him the family had retired, consequently they would
ever remain ignorant of his visit. Advancing toward him, she gave a
bright display of her rosy neck, and from her head the ambrosial locks
breathed divine fragrance; her robe hung waving to his view, while she
stood like a goddess confessed before him.

"It does seem to me, my dear sir," said Ambulinia, "that you have been
gone an age. Oh, the restless hours I have spent since I last saw you,
in yon beautiful grove. There is where I trifled with your feelings for
the express purpose of trying your attachment for me. I now find you are
devoted; but ah! I trust you live not unguarded by the powers of Heaven.
Though oft did I refuse to join my hand with thine, and as oft did
I cruelly mock thy entreaties with borrowed shapes: yes, I feared to
answer thee by terms, in words sincere and undissembled. O! could I
pursue, and you have leisure to hear the annals of my woes, the evening
star would shut Heaven's gates upon the impending day before my
tale would be finished, and this night would find me sol