 words broke from time to time.

"Oh, he is gone. I have lost him, I shall never see him any more. And he
didn't kiss me good-bye; never even offered to force a kiss from me,
and he knowing it was the very, very last, and I expecting he would,
and never dreaming he would treat me so after all we have been to each
other. Oh, oh, oh, oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! He is a dear,
poor, miserable, good-hearted, transparent liar and humbug, but oh, I do
love him so--!" After a little she broke into speech again. "How dear
he is! and I shall miss him so, I shall miss him so! Why won't he ever
think to forge a message and fetch it?--but no, he never will, he never
thinks of anything; he's so honest and simple it wouldn't ever occur to
him. Oh, what did possess him to think he could succeed as a fraud--and
he hasn't the first requisite except duplicity that I can see. Oh, dear,
I'll go to bed and give it all up. Oh, I wish I had told him to come
and tell me whenever he didn't get any telegram--and now it's all my own
fault if I never see him again. How my eyes must look!"





CHAPTER XXIV.

Next day, sure enough, the cablegram didn't come. This was an immense
disaster; for Tracy couldn't go into the presence without that ticket,
although it wasn't going to possess any value as evidence. But if the
failure of the cablegram on that first day may be called an immense
disaster, where is the dictionary that can turn out a phrase sizeable
enough to describe the tenth day's failure? Of course every day that the
cablegram didn't come made Tracy all of twenty-four hours' more ashamed
of himself than he was the day before, and made Sally fully twenty-four
hours more certain than ever that he not only hadn't any father
anywhere, but hadn't even a confederate--and so it followed that he was
a double-dyed humbug and couldn't be otherwise.

These were hard days for Barrow and the art firm. All these had their
hands full, trying to comfort Tracy. Barrow's task was particularly
hard, because he was made a confidant in full, and therefore had to
humor Tracy's delusion that he had a father, and that the father was an
earl, and that he was going to send a cablegram. Barrow early gave up
the idea of trying to convince Tracy that he hadn't any father, because
this had such a bad effect on the patient, and worked up his temper to
such an alarming degree. He had tried, as an experiment, letting Tracy
think he had a father; the result was so good that he went further, with
proper caution, and tried letting him think his father was an earl; this
wrought so well, that he grew bold, and tried letting him think he had
two fathers, if he wanted to, but he didn't want to, so Barrow withdrew
one of them and substituted letting him think he was going to get a
cablegram--which Barrow judged he wouldn't, and was right; but Barrow
worked the cablegram daily for all it was worth, and it was the one
thing that kept Tracy alive; that was Barrow's opinion.

And these were bitter hard days for poor Sally, and mainly delivered
up to private crying. She kept her furniture pretty damp, and so caught
cold, and the dampness and the cold and the sorrow together undermined
her appetite, and she was a pitiful enough object, poor thing. Her state
was bad enough, as per statement of it above quoted; but all the forces
of nature and circumstance seemed conspiring to make it worse--and
succeeding. For instance, the morning after her dismissal of Tracy,
Hawkins and Sellers read in the associated press dispatches that a toy
puzzle called Pigs in the Clover, had come into sudden favor within
the past few weeks, and that from the Atlantic to the Pacific all the
populations of all the States had knocked off work to play with it,
and that the business of the country had now come to a standstill
by consequence; that judges, lawyers, burglars, parsons, thieves,
merchants, mechanics, murderers, women, children, babies--everybody,
indeed, could be seen from morning till midnight, absorbed in one deep
project and purpose, and only one--to pen those pigs, work out that
puzzle successfully; that all gayety, all cheerfulness had departed from
the nation, and in its place care, preoccupation and anxiety sat upon
every countenance, and all faces were drawn, distressed, and furrowed
with the signs of age and trouble, and marked with the still sadder
signs of mental decay and incipient madness; that factories were at
work night and day in eight cities, and yet to supply the demand for the
puzzle was thus far impossible. Hawkins was wild with joy, but Sellers
was calm. Small matters could not disturb his serenity. He said--

"That's just the way things go. A man invents a thing which could
revolutionize the arts, produce mountains of money, and bless the earth,
and who will bother with it or show any interest in it?--and so you are
just as poor as you were before. But you invent some worthless thing to
amuse yourself with, and would throw it away if let alone, and all of
a sudden the whole world makes a snatch for it and out crops a fortune.
Hunt up that Yankee and collect, Hawkins--half is your