d I do pray that God will give me fortitude to bear with this sea
of troubles, and rescue my daughter, my Ambulinia, as a brand from the
eternal burning." "Forgive me, father, oh! forgive thy child," replied
Ambulinia. "My heart is ready to break, when I see you in this grieved
state of agitation. Oh! think not so meanly of me, as that I mourn for
my own danger. Father, I am only woman. Mother, I am only the templement
of thy youthful years, but will suffer courageously whatever punishment
you think proper to inflict upon me, if you will but allow me to comply
with my most sacred promises--if you will but give me my personal right
and my personal liberty. Oh, father! if your generosity will but give me
these, I ask nothing more. When Elfonzo offered me his heart, I gave
him my hand, never to forsake him, and now may the mighty God banish me
before I leave him in adversity. What a heart must I have to rejoice in
prosperity with him whose offers I have accepted, and then, when poverty
comes, haggard as it may be, for me to trifle with the oracles of
Heaven, and change with every fluctuation that may interrupt our
happiness--like the politician who runs the political gantlet for office
one day, and the next day, because the horizon is darkened a little,
he is seen running for his life, for fear he might perish in its ruins.
Where is the philosophy, where is the consistency, where is the charity,
in conduct like this? Be happy then, my beloved father, and forget me;
let the sorrow of parting break down the wall of separation and make
us equal in our feeling; let me now say how ardently I love you; let
me kiss that age-worn cheek, and should my tears bedew thy face, I will
wipe them away. Oh, I never can forget you; no, never, never!"

"Weep not," said the father, "Ambulinia. I will forbid Elfonzo my house,
and desire that you may keep retired a few days. I will let him know
that my friendship for my family is not linked together by cankered
chains; and if he ever enters upon my premises again, I will send him
to his long home." "Oh, father! let me entreat you to be calm upon this
occasion, and though Elfonzo may be the sport of the clouds and winds,
yet I feel assured that no fate will send him to the silent tomb until
the God of the Universe calls him hence with a triumphant voice."

Here the father turned away, exclaiming: "I will answer his letter in a
very few words, and you, madam, will have the goodness to stay at home
with your mother; and remember, I am determined to protect you from the
consuming fire that looks so fair to your view."



Cumming, January 22, 1844.


Sir--In regard to your request, I am as I ever have been, utterly
opposed to your marrying into my family; and if you have any regard for
yourself, or any gentlemanly feeling, I hope you will mention it to me
no more; but seek some other one who is not so far superior to you in
standing.


W. W. Valeer.



When Elfonzo read the above letter, he became so much depressed in
spirits that many of his friends thought it advisable to use other means
to bring about the happy union. "Strange," said he, "that the contents
of this diminutive letter should cause me to have such depressed
feelings; but there is a nobler theme than this. I know not why my
MILITARY TITLE is not as great as that of SQUIRE VALEER. For my life I
cannot see that my ancestors are inferior to those who are so bitterly
opposed to my marriage with Ambulinia. I know I have seen huge mountains
before me, yet, when I think that I know gentlemen will insult me upon
this delicate matter, should I become angry at fools and babblers, who
pride themselves in their impudence and ignorance? No. My equals! I
know not where to find them. My inferiors! I think it beneath me; and my
superiors! I think it presumption; therefore, if this youthful heart is
protected by any of the divine rights, I never will betray my trust."

He was aware that Ambulinia had a confidence that was, indeed, as firm
and as resolute as she was beautiful and interesting. He hastened to the
cottage of Louisa, who received him in her usual mode of pleasantness,
and informed him that Ambulinia had just that moment left. "Is it
possible?" said Elfonzo. "Oh, murdered hours! Why did she not remain and
be the guardian of my secrets? But hasten and tell me how she has stood
this trying scene, and what are her future determinations." "You know,"
said Louisa, "Major Elfonzo, that you have Ambulinia's first love, which
is of no small consequence. She came here about twilight, and shed many
precious tears in consequence of her own fate with yours. We walked
silently in yon little valley you see, where we spent a momentary
repose. She seemed to be quite as determined as ever, and before we left
that beautiful spot she offered up a prayer to Heaven for thee." "I will
see her then," replied Elfonzo, "though legions of enemies may oppose.
She is mine by foreordination--she is mine by prophesy--she is mine
by her own free will, and I will rescue her from the hands of her
oppressors. Will you not, Miss Louisa, assist me in my capture?"

"I will certainl