her went to see Major Pond and mamma and I
     sat down to our lunch. After lunch most of our time was taken up
     with packing, and at about three o'clock we went to escort mamma to
     the train. We got on board the train with her and stayed with her
     about five minutes and then we said good-bye to her and the train
     started for Hartford. It was the first time I had ever beene away
     from home without mamma in my life, although I was 13 yrs. old.
     Papa and I drove back to the hotel and got Major Pond and then went
     to see the Brooklyn Bridge we went across it to Brooklyn on the
     cars and then walked back across it from Brooklyn to New York. We
     enjoyed looking at the beautiful scenery and we could see the
     bridge moove under the intense heat of the sun. We had a perfectly
     delightful time, but weer pretty tired when we got back to the
     hotel.

     The next morning we rose early, took our breakfast and took an
     early train to Poughkeepsie. We had a very pleasant journey to
     Poughkeepsie. The Hudson was magnificent--shrouded with beautiful
     mist. When we arived at Poughkeepsie it was raining quite hard;
     which fact greatly dissapointed me because I very much wanted to
     see the outside of the buildings of Vassar College and as it rained
     that would be impossible. It was quite a long drive from the
     station to Vasser College and papa and I had a nice long time to
     discuss and laugh over German profanity. One of the German phrases
     papa particularly enjoys is "O heilige maria Mutter Jesus!" Jean
     has a German nurse, and this was one of her phrases, there was a
     time when Jean exclaimed "Ach Gott!" to every trifle, but when
     mamma found it out she was shocked and instantly put a stop to it.


It brings that pretty little German girl vividly before me--a sweet and
innocent and plump little creature with peachy cheeks; a clear-souled
little maiden and without offence, notwithstanding her profanities, and
she was loaded to the eyebrows with them. She was a mere child. She was
not fifteen yet. She was just from Germany, and knew no English. She was
always scattering her profanities around, and they were such a
satisfaction to me that I never dreamed of such a thing as modifying
her. For my own sake, I had no disposition to tell on her. Indeed I took
pains to keep her from being found out. I told her to confine her
religious exercises to the children's quarters, and urged her to
remember that Mrs. Clemens was prejudiced against pieties on week-days.
To the children, the little maid's profanities sounded natural and
proper and right, because they had been used to that kind of talk in
Germany, and they attached no evil importance to it. It grieves me that
I have forgotten those vigorous remarks. I long hoarded them in my
memory as a treasure. But I remember one of them still, because I heard
it so many times. The trial of that little creature's life was the
children's hair. She would tug and strain with her comb, accompanying
her work with her misplaced pieties. And when finally she was through
with her triple job she always fired up and exploded her thanks toward
the sky, where they belonged, in this form: "_Gott sei Dank ich bin
fertig mit'm Gott verdammtes Haar!_" (I believe I am not quite brave
enough to translate it.)

_From Susy's Biography_.


     We at length reached Vassar College and she looked very finely, her
     buildings and her grounds being very beautiful. We went to the
     front doore and range the bell. The young girl who came to the
     doore wished to know who we wanted to see. Evidently we were not
     expected. Papa told her who we wanted to see and she showed us to
     the parlor. We waited, no one came; and waited, no one came, still
     no one came. It was beginning to seem pretty awkward, "Oh well this
     is a pretty piece of business," papa exclaimed. At length we heard
     footsteps coming down the long corridor and Miss C, (the lady who
     had invited papa) came into the room. She greeted papa very
     pleasantly and they had a nice little chatt together. Soon the lady
     principal also entered and she was very pleasant and agreable. She
     showed us to our rooms and said she would send for us when dinner
     was ready. We went into our rooms, but we had nothing to do for
     half an hour exept to watch the rain drops as they fell upon the
     window panes. At last we were called to dinner, and I went down
     without papa as he never eats anything in the middle of the day. I
     sat at the table with the lady principal and enjoyed very much
     seeing all the young girls trooping into the dining-room. After
     dinner I went around the College with the young ladies and papa
     stayed in his room and smoked. When it was supper time papa went
     down and ate supper with us and we had a very delightful supper.
     After supper the young ladies went to their rooms to dress for the
     evening. Papa went to his room and I went with the lady principal.
     At length the guests began to ariv