me there's a hotel fire she's in it. She's
always there--and if she can't be there herself, her diamonds are. Now
you can't make anything out of that but just sheer luck."

"I never heard of such a thing. She must have lost quarts of diamonds."

"Quarts, she's lost bushels of them. It's got so that the hotels are
superstitious about her. They won't let her in. They think there will be
a fire; and besides, if she's there it cancels the insurance. She's been
waning a little lately, but this fire will set her up. She lost $60,000
worth last night."

"I think she's a fool. If I had $60,000 worth of diamonds I wouldn't
trust them in a hotel."

"I wouldn't either; but you can't teach an actress that. This one's
been burnt out thirty-five times. And yet if there's a hotel fire in San
Francisco to-night she's got to bleed again, you mark my words. Perfect
ass; they say she's got diamonds in every hotel in the country."

When they arrived at the scene of the fire the poor old earl took one
glimpse at the melancholy morgue and turned away his face overcome by
the spectacle. He said:

"It is too true, Hawkins--recognition is impossible, not one of the five
could be identified by its nearest friend. You make the selection, I
can't bear it."

"Which one had I better--"

"Oh, take any of them. Pick out the best one."

However, the officers assured the earl--for they knew him, everybody in
Washington knew him--that the position in which these bodies were found
made it impossible that any one of them could be that of his noble young
kinsman. They pointed out the spot where, if the newspaper account was
correct, he must have sunk down to destruction; and at a wide distance
from this spot they showed him where the young man must have gone down
in case he was suffocated in his room; and they showed still a third
place, quite remote, where he might possibly have found his death if
perchance he tried to escape by the side exit toward the rear. The old
Colonel brushed away a tear and said to Hawkins:

"As it turns out there was something prophetic in my fears. Yes, it's
a matter of ashes. Will you kindly step to a grocery and fetch a couple
more baskets?"

Reverently they got a basket of ashes from each of those now hallowed
spots, and carried them home to consult as to the best manner of
forwarding them to England, and also to give them an opportunity to
"lie in state,"--a mark of respect which the colonel deemed obligatory,
considering the high rank of the deceased.

They set the baskets on the table in what was formerly the library,
drawing-room and workshop--now the Hall of Audience--and went up stairs
to the lumber room to see if they could find a British flag to use as
a part of the outfit proper to the lying in state. A moment later, Lady
Rossmore came in from the street and caught sight of the baskets just as
old Jinny crossed her field of vision. She quite lost her patience and
said:

"Well, what will you do next? What in the world possessed you to clutter
up the parlor table with these baskets of ashes?"

"Ashes?" And she came to look. She put up her hands in pathetic
astonishment. "Well, I never see de like!"

"Didn't you do it?"

"Who, me? Clah to goodness it's de fust time I've sot eyes on 'em, Miss
Polly. Dat's Dan'l. Dat ole moke is losin' his mine."

But it wasn't Dan'l, for he was called, and denied it.

"Dey ain't no way to 'splain dat. Wen hit's one er dese-yer common
'currences, a body kin reckon maybe de cat--"

"Oh!" and a shudder shook Lady Rossmore to her foundations. "I see it
all. Keep away from them--they're his."

"His, m' lady?"

"Yes--your young Marse Sellers from England that's burnt up."

She was alone with the ashes--alone before she could take half a breath.
Then she went after Mulberry Sellers, purposing to make short work
of his program, whatever it might be; "for," said she, "when his
sentimentals are up, he's a numskull, and there's no knowing what
extravagance he'll contrive, if you let him alone." She found him. He
had found the flag and was bringing it. When she heard that his idea
was to have the remains "lie in state, and invite the government and the
public," she broke it up. She said:

"Your intentions are all right--they always are--you want to do honour
to the remains, and surely nobody can find any fault with that, for he
was your kin; but you are going the wrong way about it, and you will
see it yourself if you stop and think. You can't file around a basket
of ashes trying to look sorry for it and make a sight that is really
solemn, because the solemner it is, the more it isn't--anybody can see
that. It would be so with one basket; it would be three times so with
three. Well, it stands to reason that if it wouldn't be solemn with
one mourner, it wouldn't be with a procession--and there would be
five thousand people here. I don't know but it would be pretty near
ridiculous; I think it would. No, Mulberry, they can't lie in state--it
would be a mistake. Give that up and think of something else."

So he gave it up; and not reluctantly, when he had thought it over and
realized how right her instinct wa