get some of the drippings of Conspicuousness, and we
will put up with a single, humble drip, if we can't get any more. We may
pretend otherwise, in conversation; but we can't pretend it to ourselves
privately--and we don't. We do confess in public that we are the
noblest work of God, being moved to it by long habit, and teaching,
and superstition; but deep down in the secret places of our souls we
recognize that, if we ARE the noblest work, the less said about it the
better.

We of the North poke fun at the South for its fondness of titles--a
fondness for titles pure and simple, regardless of whether they are
genuine or pinchbeck. We forget that whatever a Southerner likes the
rest of the human race likes, and that there is no law of predilection
lodged in one people that is absent from another people. There is no
variety in the human race. We are all children, all children of the one
Adam, and we love toys. We can soon acquire that Southern disease if
some one will give it a start. It already has a start, in fact. I have
been personally acquainted with over eighty-four thousand persons who,
at one time or another in their lives, have served for a year or two
on the staffs of our multitudinous governors, and through that
fatality have been generals temporarily, and colonels temporarily, and
judge-advocates temporarily; but I have known only nine among them who
could be hired to let the title go when it ceased to be legitimate. I
know thousands and thousands of governors who ceased to be governors
away back in the last century; but I am acquainted with only three who
would answer your letter if you failed to call them "Governor" in it.
I know acres and acres of men who have done time in a legislature in
prehistoric days, but among them is not half an acre whose resentment
you would not raise if you addressed them as "Mr." instead of "Hon."
The first thing a legislature does is to convene in an impressive
legislative attitude, and get itself photographed. Each member
frames his copy and takes it to the woods and hangs it up in the most
aggressively conspicuous place in his house; and if you visit the house
and fail to inquire what that accumulation is, the conversation will be
brought around to it by that aforetime legislator, and he will show you
a figure in it which in the course of years he has almost obliterated
with the smut of his finger-marks, and say with a solemn joy, "It's me!"

Have you ever seen a country Congressman enter the hotel breakfast-room
in Washington with his letters?--and sit at his table and let on to
read them?--and wrinkle his brows and frown statesman-like?--keeping a
furtive watch-out over his glasses all the while to see if he is being
observed and admired?--those same old letters which he fetches in every
morning? Have you seen it? Have you seen him show off? It is THE
sight of the national capital. Except one; a pathetic one. That is the
ex-Congressman: the poor fellow whose life has been ruined by a two-year
taste of glory and of fictitious consequence; who has been superseded,
and ought to take his heartbreak home and hide it, but cannot tear
himself away from the scene of his lost little grandeur; and so he
lingers, and still lingers, year after year, unconsidered, sometimes
snubbed, ashamed of his fallen estate, and valiantly trying to look
otherwise; dreary and depressed, but counterfeiting breeziness and
gaiety, hailing with chummy familiarity, which is not always welcomed,
the more-fortunes who are still in place and were once his mates. Have
you seen him? He clings piteously to the one little shred that is left
of his departed distinction--the "privilege of the floor"; and works it
hard and gets what he can out of it. That is the saddest figure I know
of.

Yes, we do so love our little distinctions! And then we loftily scoff
at a Prince for enjoying his larger ones; forgetting that if we only had
his chance--ah! "Senator" is not a legitimate title. A Senator has no
more right to be addressed by it than have you or I; but, in the several
state capitals and in Washington, there are five thousand Senators who
take very kindly to that fiction, and who purr gratefully when you call
them by it--which you may do quite unrebuked. Then those same Senators
smile at the self-constructed majors and generals and judges of the
South!

Indeed, we do love our distinctions, get them how we may. And we work
them for all they are worth. In prayer we call ourselves "worms of the
dust," but it is only on a sort of tacit understanding that the remark
shall not be taken at par. WE--worms of the dust! Oh, no, we are not
that. Except in fact; and we do not deal much in fact when we are
contemplating ourselves.

As a race, we do certainly love a lord--let him be Croker, or a duke, or
a prize-fighter, or whatever other personage shall chance to be the head
of our group. Many years ago, I saw a greasy youth in overalls standing
by the HERALD office, with an expectant look in his face. Soon a large
man passed out, and gave him a pat on the shoulder. That was what the
boy was waiting for--the large man's notice. The 