ame there. Such is
unification, and there's no other way to get it--no other way to keep it
after you've got it," said the poor emperor always.

But the grumblers only replied, "We can't stand the taxes--we can't
stand them."

Now right on top of this the cabinet reported a national debt amounting
to upward of forty-five dollars--half a dollar to every individual in
the nation. And they proposed to fund something. They had heard that
this was always done in such emergencies. They proposed duties on
exports; also on imports. And they wanted to issue bonds; also paper
money, redeemable in yams and cabbages in fifty years. They said the pay
of the army and of the navy and of the whole governmental machine was
far in arrears, and unless something was done, and done immediately,
national bankruptcy must ensue, and possibly insurrection and
revolution. The emperor at once resolved upon a high-handed measure, and
one of a nature never before heard of in Pitcairn's Island. He went in
state to the church on Sunday morning, with the army at his back, and
commanded the minister of the treasury to take up a collection.

That was the feather that broke the camel's back. First one citizen, and
then another, rose and refused to submit to this unheard-of outrage--and
each refusal was followed by the immediate confiscation of the
malcontent's property. This vigor soon stopped the refusals, and the
collection proceeded amid a sullen and ominous silence. As the emperor
withdrew with the troops, he said, "I will teach you who is master
here." Several persons shouted, "Down with unification!" They were at
once arrested and torn from the arms of their weeping friends by the
soldiery.

But in the mean time, as any prophet might have foreseen, a Social
Democrat had been developed. As the emperor stepped into the gilded
imperial wheelbarrow at the church door, the social democrat stabbed at
him fifteen or sixteen times with a harpoon, but fortunately with such a
peculiarly social democratic unprecision of aim as to do no damage.

That very night the convulsion came. The nation rose as one man--though
forty-nine of the revolutionists were of the other sex. The infantry
threw down their pitchforks; the artillery cast aside their cocoa-nuts;
the navy revolted; the emperor was seized, and bound hand and foot in
his palace. He was very much depressed. He said:--

"I freed you from a grinding tyranny; I lifted you up out of your
degradation, and made you a nation among nations; I gave you a strong,
compact, centralized government; and, more than all, I gave you the
blessing of blessings--unification. I have done all this, and my reward
is hatred, insult, and these bonds. Take me; do with me as you will.
I here resign my crown and all my dignities, and gladly do I release
myself from their too heavy burden. For your sake I took them up; for
your sake I lay them down. The imperial jewel is no more; now bruise and
defile as ye will the useless setting."

By a unanimous voice the people condemned the ex-emperor and the social
democrat to perpetual banishment from church services, or to perpetual
labor as galley-slaves in the whale-boat--whichever they might prefer.
The next day the nation assembled again, and rehoisted the British flag,
reinstated the British tyranny, reduced the nobility to the condition of
commoners again, and then straightway turned their diligent attention
to the weeding of the ruined and neglected yam patches, and the
rehabilitation of the old useful industries and the old healing and
solacing pieties. The ex-emperor restored the lost trespass law, and
explained that he had stolen it--not to injure any one, but to further
his political projects. Therefore the nation gave the late chief
magistrate his office again, and also his alienated Property.

Upon reflection, the ex-emperor and the social democrat chose perpetual
banishment from religious services in preference to perpetual labor as
galley-slaves "with perpetual religious services," as they phrased
it; wherefore the people believed that the poor fellows' troubles had
unseated their reason, and so they judged it best to confine them for
the present. Which they did.

Such is the history of Pitcairn's "doubtful acquisition."




THE CANVASSER'S TALE

Poor, sad-eyed stranger! There was that about his humble mien, his tired
look, his decayed-gentility clothes, that almost reached the
mustard-seed of charity that still remained, remote and lonely, in the
empty vastness of my heart, notwithstanding I observed a portfolio under
his arm, and said to myself, Behold, Providence hath delivered his
servant into the hands of another canvasser.

Well, these people always get one interested. Before I well knew how it
came about, this one was telling me his history, and I was all attention
and sympathy. He told it something like this:--

My parents died, alas, when I was a little, sinless child. My uncle
Ithuriel took me to his heart and reared me as his own. He was my only
relative in the wide world; but he was good and rich and generous. He
reared me in the lap of luxury. I knew no want that money