, and
they decided to wait for the next one. They waited a while; then
it occurred to Washington that there could be no use in chasing one
horse-car with another, and he wanted to hunt up a hack. But the Colonel
said:

"When you come to think of it, there's no occasion for that at all. Now
that I've got him materialized, I can command his motions. I'll have him
at the house by the time we get there."

Then they hurried off home in a state of great and joyful excitement.

The hat exchange accomplished, the two new friends started to walk back
leisurely to the boarding house. Barrow's mind was full of curiosity
about this young fellow. He said,

"You've never been to the Rocky Mountains?"

"No."

"You've never been out on the plains?"

"No."

"How long have you been in this country?"

"Only a few days."

"You've never been in America before?"

"No."

Then Barrow communed with himself. "Now what odd shapes the notions of
romantic people take. Here's a young fellow who's read in England about
cowboys and adventures on the plains. He comes here and buys a
cowboy's suit. Thinks he can play himself on folks for a cowboy, all
inexperienced as he is. Now the minute he's caught in this poor little
game, he's ashamed of it and ready to retire from it. It is that
exchange that he has put up as an explanation. It's rather thin, too
thin altogether. Well, he's young, never been anywhere, knows nothing
about the world, sentimental, no doubt. Perhaps it was the natural
thing for him to do, but it was a most singular choice, curious freak,
altogether."

Both men were busy with their thoughts for a time, then Tracy heaved a
sigh and said,

"Mr. Barrow, the case of that young fellow troubles me."

"You mean Nat Brady?"

"Yes, Brady, or Baxter, or whatever it was. The old landlord called him
by several different names."

"Oh, yes, he has been very liberal with names for Brady, since Brady
fell into arrears for his board. Well, that's one of his sarcasms--the
old man thinks he's great on sarcasm."

"Well, what is Brady's difficulty? What is Brady--who is he?"

"Brady is a tinner. He's a young journeyman tinner who was getting along
all right till he fell sick and lost his job. He was very popular before
he lost his job; everybody in the house liked Brady. The old man was
rather especially fond of him, but you know that when a man loses his
job and loses his ability to support himself and to pay his way as he
goes, it makes a great difference in the way people look at him and feel
about him."

"Is that so! Is it so?"

Barrow looked at Tracy in a puzzled way. "Why of course it's so.
Wouldn't you know that, naturally. Don't you know that the wounded deer
is always attacked and killed by its companions and friends?"

Tracy said to himself, while a chilly and boding discomfort spread
itself through his system, "In a republic of deer and men where all
are free and equal, misfortune is a crime, and the prosperous gore the
unfortunate to death." Then he said aloud, "Here in the boarding house,
if one would have friends and be popular instead of having the cold
shoulder turned upon him, he must be prosperous."

"Yes," Barrow said, "that is so. It's their human nature. They do turn
against Brady, now that he's unfortunate, and they don't like him as
well as they did before; but it isn't because of any lack in Brady--he's
just as he was before, has the same nature and the same impulses, but
they--well, Brady is a thorn in their consciences, you see. They know
they ought to help him and they're too stingy to do it, and they're
ashamed of themselves for that, and they ought also to hate themselves
on that account, but instead of that they hate Brady because he makes
them ashamed of themselves. I say that's human nature; that occurs
everywhere; this boarding house is merely the world in little, it's
the case all over--they're all alike. In prosperity we are popular;
popularity comes easy in that case, but when the other thing comes our
friends are pretty likely to turn against us."

Tracy's noble theories and high purposes were beginning to feel pretty
damp and clammy. He wondered if by any possibility he had made a mistake
in throwing his own prosperity to the winds and taking up the cross
of other people's unprosperity. But he wouldn't listen to that sort of
thing; he cast it out of his mind and resolved to go ahead resolutely
along the course he had mapped out for himself.

Extracts from his diary:

Have now spent several days in this singular hive. I don't know quite
what to make out of these people. They have merits and virtues, but they
have some other qualities, and some ways that are hard to get along
with. I can't enjoy them. The moment I appeared in a hat of the period,
I noticed a change. The respect which had been paid me before, passed
suddenly away, and the people became friendly--more than that--they
became familiar, and I'm not used to familiarity, and can't take to it
right off; I find that out. These people's familiarity amounts to
impudence, sometimes. I suppose it's all right; no doubt I can get used
to it, but it's not a satisfactory proc