t were joyfully wringing the hands of a stoutish,
discouraged-looking man whose general aspect suggested that he was fifty
years old, but whose hair swore to a hundred.

"Well, well, well, Washington, my boy, it is good to look at you again.
Sit down, sit down, and make yourself at home. There, now--why, you look
perfectly natural; aging a little, just a little, but you'd have known
him anywhere, wouldn't you, Polly?"

"Oh, yes, Berry, he's just like his pa would have looked if he'd lived.
Dear, dear, where have you dropped from? Let me see, how long is it
since--"

"I should say it's all of fifteen years, Mrs. Sellers."

"Well, well, how time does get away with us. Yes, and oh, the changes
that--"

There was a sudden catch of her voice and a trembling of the lip, the
men waiting reverently for her to get command of herself and go on; but
after a little struggle she turned away, with her apron to her eyes, and
softly disappeared.

"Seeing you made her think of the children, poor thing--dear, dear,
they're all dead but the youngest.

"But banish care, it's no time for it now--on with the dance, let joy be
unconfined is my motto, whether there's any dance to dance; or any joy
to unconfine--you'll be the healthier for it every time,--every time,
Washington--it's my experience, and I've seen a good deal of this world.
Come--where have you disappeared to all these years, and are you from
there, now, or where are you from?"

"I don't quite think you would ever guess, Colonel. Cherokee Strip."

"My land!"

"Sure as you live."

"You can't mean it. Actually living out there?"

"Well, yes, if a body may call it that; though it's a pretty strong
term for 'dobies and jackass rabbits, boiled beans and slap-jacks,
depression, withered hopes, poverty in all its varieties--"

"Louise out there?"

"Yes, and the children."

"Out there now?"

"Yes, I couldn't afford to bring them with me."

"Oh, I see,--you had to come--claim against the government. Make
yourself perfectly easy--I'll take care of that."

"But it isn't a claim against the government."

"No? Want to be postmaster? That's all right. Leave it to me. I'll fix
it."

"But it isn't postmaster--you're all astray yet."

"Well, good gracious, Washington, why don't you come out and tell me
what it is? What, do you want to be so reserved and distrustful with an
old friend like me for? Don't you reckon I can keep a se--"

"There's no secret about it--you merely don't give me a chance to--"

"Now look here, old friend, I know the human race; and I know that when
a man comes to Washington, I don't care if it's from heaven, let alone
Cherokee-Strip, it's because he wants something. And I know that as
a rule he's not going to get it; that he'll stay and try--for another
thing and won't get that; the same luck with the next and the next
and the next; and keeps on till he strikes bottom, and is too poor
and ashamed to go back, even to Cherokee Strip; and at last his heart
breaks--and they take up a collection and bury him. There--don't
interrupt me, I know what I'm talking about. Happy and prosperous in the
Far West wasn't I? You know that. Principal citizen of Hawkeye, looked
up to by everybody, kind of an autocrat, actually a kind of an autocrat,
Washington. Well, nothing would do but I must go Minister to St.
James, the Governor and everybody insisting, you know, and so at last I
consented--no getting out of it, had to do it, so here I came. A day too
late, Washington. Think of that--what little things change the world's
history--yes, sir, the place had been filled. Well, there I was, you
see. I offered to compromise and go to Paris. The President was very
sorry and all that, but that place, you see, didn't belong to the West,
so there I was again. There was no help for it, so I had to stoop a
little--we all reach the day some time or other when we've got to do
that, Washington, and it's not a bad thing for us, either, take it by
and large and all around--I had to stoop a little and offer to
take Constantinople. Washington, consider this--for it's perfectly
true--within a month I asked for China; within another month I begged
for Japan; one year later I was away down, down, down, supplicating with
tears and anguish for the bottom office in the gift of the government
of the United States--Flint-Picker in the cellars of the War Department.
And by George I didn't get it."

"Flint-Picker?"

"Yes. Office established in the time of the Revolution, last century.
The musket-flints for the military posts were supplied from the capitol.
They do it yet; for although the flint-arm has gone out and the forts
have tumbled down, the decree hasn't been repealed--been overlooked
and forgotten, you see--and so the vacancies where old Ticonderoga and
others used to stand, still get their six quarts of gun-flints a year
just the same."

Washington said musingly after a pause:

"How strange it seems--to start for Minister to England at twenty
thousand a year and fail for flintpicker at--"

"Three dollars a week. It's human life, Washington--just an epitome of
human ambition, and struggle, and the outcome: you aim 