 piece of paper, and
you can read it along the road to Mr. Lothrop's, if you want to.  Do you
reckon that 'll do?"

"Oh, yes."

So I wrote:  "I put it in the coffin.  It was in there when you was
crying there, away in the night.  I was behind the door, and I was
mighty sorry for you, Miss Mary Jane."

It made my eyes water a little to remember her crying there all by
herself in the night, and them devils laying there right under her own
roof, shaming her and robbing her; and when I folded it up and give it
to her I see the water come into her eyes, too; and she shook me by the
hand, hard, and says:

"_Good_-bye.  I'm going to do everything just as you've told me; and if
I don't ever see you again, I sha'n't ever forget you and I'll think of
you a many and a many a time, and I'll _pray_ for you, too!"?and she was
gone.

Pray for me!  I reckoned if she knowed me she'd take a job that was more
nearer her size.  But I bet she done it, just the same?she was just that
kind.  She had the grit to pray for Judus if she took the notion?there
warn't no back-down to her, I judge.  You may say what you want to, but
in my opinion she had more sand in her than any girl I ever see; in
my opinion she was just full of sand.  It sounds like flattery, but it
ain't no flattery.  And when it comes to beauty?and goodness, too?she
lays over them all.  I hain't ever seen her since that time that I see
her go out of that door; no, I hain't ever seen her since, but I reckon
I've thought of her a many and a many a million times, and of her saying
she would pray for me; and if ever I'd a thought it would do any good
for me to pray for _her_, blamed if I wouldn't a done it or bust.

Well, Mary Jane she lit out the back way, I reckon; because nobody see
her go.  When I struck Susan and the hare-lip, I says:

"What's the name of them people over on t'other side of the river that
you all goes to see sometimes?"

They says:

"There's several; but it's the Proctors, mainly."

"That's the name," I says; "I most forgot it.  Well, Miss Mary Jane she
told me to tell you she's gone over there in a dreadful hurry?one of
them's sick."

"Which one?"

"I don't know; leastways, I kinder forget; but I thinks it's?"

"Sakes alive, I hope it ain't _Hanner_?"

"I'm sorry to say it," I says, "but Hanner's the very one."

"My goodness, and she so well only last week!  Is she took bad?"

"It ain't no name for it.  They set up with her all night, Miss Mary
Jane said, and they don't think she'll last many hours."

"Only think of that, now!  What's the matter with her?"

I couldn't think of anything reasonable, right off that way, so I says:

"Mumps."

"Mumps your granny!  They don't set up with people that's got the
mumps."

"They don't, don't they?  You better bet they do with _these_ mumps.
 These mumps is different.  It's a new kind, Miss Mary Jane said."

"How's it a new kind?"

"Because it's mixed up with other things."

"What other things?"

"Well, measles, and whooping-cough, and erysiplas, and consumption, and
yaller janders, and brain-fever, and I don't know what all."

"My land!  And they call it the _mumps_?"

"That's what Miss Mary Jane said."

"Well, what in the nation do they call it the _mumps_ for?"

"Why, because it _is_ the mumps.  That's what it starts with."

"Well, ther' ain't no sense in it.  A body might stump his toe, and take
pison, and fall down the well, and break his neck, and bust his brains
out, and somebody come along and ask what killed him, and some numskull
up and say, 'Why, he stumped his _toe_.'  Would ther' be any sense
in that? _No_.  And ther' ain't no sense in _this_, nuther.  Is it
ketching?"

"Is it _ketching_?  Why, how you talk.  Is a _harrow_ catching?in the
dark? If you don't hitch on to one tooth, you're bound to on another,
ain't you? And you can't get away with that tooth without fetching the
whole harrow along, can you?  Well, these kind of mumps is a kind of a
harrow, as you may say?and it ain't no slouch of a harrow, nuther, you
come to get it hitched on good."

"Well, it's awful, I think," says the hare-lip.  "I'll go to Uncle
Harvey and?"

"Oh, yes," I says, "I _would_.  Of _course_ I would.  I wouldn't lose no
time."

"Well, why wouldn't you?"

"Just look at it a minute, and maybe you can see.  Hain't your uncles
obleegd to get along home to England as fast as they can?  And do you
reckon they'd be mean enough to go off and leave you to go all that
journey by yourselves?  _you_ know they'll wait for you.  So fur, so
good. Your uncle Harvey's a preacher, ain't he?  Very well, then; is a
_preacher_ going to deceive a steamboat clerk? is he going to deceive
a _ship clerk?_?so as to get them to let Miss Mary Jane go aboard?  Now
_you_ know he ain't.  What _will_ he do, then?  Why, he'll say, 'It's a
great pity, but my church matters has got to get along the best way they
can; for my niece has been exposed to the dreadful pluribus-unum mumps,
and so it's my bounden duty to set down here and wait the three months
it takes to show on her if she's got it.'  But never mind, if you think
it's best to tell your uncle Harvey?"

"Shucks