tory
chapter by this same Davis, whose first name I have forgotten. Stevenson
had begun the matter with this question:

"Can you name the American author whose fame and acceptance stretch
widest in the States?"

I thought I could, but it did not seem to me that it would be modest to
speak out, in the circumstances. So I diffidently said nothing.
Stevenson noticed, and said--

"Save your delicacy for another time--you are not the one. For a
shilling you can't name the American author of widest note and
popularity in the States. But I can."

Then he went on and told about that Albany incident. He had inquired of
the shopman--

"Who is this Davis?"

The answer was--

"An author whose books have to have freight-trains to carry them, not
baskets. Apparently you have not heard of him?"

Stevenson said no, this was the first time. The man said--

"Nobody has heard of Davis: you may ask all around and you will see. You
never see his name mentioned in print, not even in advertisement; these
things are of no use to Davis, not any more than they are to the wind
and the sea. You never see one of Davis's books floating on top of the
United States, but put on your diving armor and get yourself lowered
away down and down and down till you strike the dense region, the
sunless region of eternal drudgery and starvation wages--there you'll
find them by the million. The man that gets that market, his fortune is
made, his bread and butter are safe, for those people will never go back
on him. An author may have a reputation which is confined to the
surface, and lose it and become pitied, then despised, then forgotten,
entirely forgotten--the frequent steps in a surface reputation. At
surface reputation, however great, is always mortal, and always killable
if you go at it right--with pins and needles, and quiet slow poison, not
with the club and tomahawk. But it is a different matter with the
submerged reputation--down in the deep water; once a favorite there,
always a favorite; once beloved, always beloved; once respected, always
respected, honored, and believed in. For, what the reviewer says never
finds its way down into those placid deeps; nor the newspaper sneers,
nor any breath of the winds of slander blowing above. Down there they
never hear of these things. Their idol may be painted clay, up then at
the surface, and fade and waste and crumble and blow away, there being
much weather there; but down below he is gold and adamant and
indestructible."


V.

This is from this morning's paper:


                        MARK TWAIN LETTER SOLD.

            _Written to Thomas Nast, it Proposed a Joint Tour._

     A Mark Twain autograph letter brought $43 yesterday at the auction
     by the Merwin-Clayton Company of the library and correspondence of
     the late Thomas Nast, cartoonist. The letter is nine pages
     note-paper, is dated Hartford, Nov. 12, 1877, and it addressed to
     Nast. It reads in part as follows:


                                                 Hartford, _Nov. 12_.

     MY DEAR NAST: I did not think I should ever stand on a platform
     again until the time was come for me to say I die innocent. But the
     same old offers keep arriving that have arriven every year, and
     been every year declined--$500 for Louisville, $500 for St. Louis,
     $1,000 gold for two nights in Toronto, half gross proceeds for New
     York, Boston, Brooklyn, &c. I have declined them all just as usual,
     though sorely tempted as usual.

     Now, I do not decline because I mind talking to an audience, but
     because (1) travelling alone is so heart-breakingly dreary, and (2)
     shouldering the whole show is such cheer-killing responsibility.

     Therefore I now propose to you what you proposed to me in November,
     1867--ten years ago, (when I was unknown,) viz.; That you should
     stand on the platform and make pictures, and I stand by you and
     blackguard the audience. I should enormously enjoy meandering
     around (to big towns--don't want to go to little ones) with you for
     company.

     The letter includes a schedule of cities and the number of
     appearances planned for each.


This is as it should be. This is worthy of all praise. I say it myself
lest other competent persons should forget to do it. It appears that
four of my ancient letters were sold at auction, three of them at
twenty-seven dollars, twenty-eight dollars, and twenty-nine dollars
respectively, and the one above mentioned at forty-three dollars. There
is one very gratifying circumstance about this, to wit: that my
literature has more than held its own as regards money value through
this stretch of thirty-six years. I judge that the forty-three-dollar
letter must have gone at about ten cents a word, whereas if I had
written it to-day its market rate would be thirty cents--so I have
increased in value two or three hundred per cent. I note another
gratifying circumstance--that a letter of General Grant's sold at
something short of eighteen dollars. I can't rise to General Grant's
lofty place in the estimation of this nation, but it is a deep ha