by it was getting-up time.  So I come down the ladder and started
for down-stairs; but as I come to the girls' room the door was open, and
I see Mary Jane setting by her old hair trunk, which was open and she'd
been packing things in it?getting ready to go to England.  But she
had stopped now with a folded gown in her lap, and had her face in her
hands, crying.  I felt awful bad to see it; of course anybody would.  I
went in there and says:

"Miss Mary Jane, you can't a-bear to see people in trouble, and I
can't?most always.  Tell me about it."

So she done it.  And it was the niggers?I just expected it.  She said
the beautiful trip to England was most about spoiled for her; she didn't
know _how_ she was ever going to be happy there, knowing the mother and
the children warn't ever going to see each other no more?and then busted
out bitterer than ever, and flung up her hands, and says:

"Oh, dear, dear, to think they ain't _ever_ going to see each other any
more!"

"But they _will_?and inside of two weeks?and I _know_ it!" says I.

Laws, it was out before I could think!  And before I could budge she
throws her arms around my neck and told me to say it _again_, say it
_again_, say it _again_!

I see I had spoke too sudden and said too much, and was in a close
place. I asked her to let me think a minute; and she set there, very
impatient and excited and handsome, but looking kind of happy and
eased-up, like a person that's had a tooth pulled out.  So I went to
studying it out.  I says to myself, I reckon a body that ups and tells
the truth when he is in a tight place is taking considerable many resks,
though I ain't had no experience, and can't say for certain; but it
looks so to me, anyway; and yet here's a case where I'm blest if it
don't look to me like the truth is better and actuly _safer_ than a lie.
 I must lay it by in my mind, and think it over some time or other, it's
so kind of strange and unregular. I never see nothing like it.  Well, I
says to myself at last, I'm a-going to chance it; I'll up and tell the
truth this time, though it does seem most like setting down on a kag of
powder and touching it off just to see where you'll go to. Then I says:

"Miss Mary Jane, is there any place out of town a little ways where you
could go and stay three or four days?"

"Yes; Mr. Lothrop's.  Why?"

"Never mind why yet.  If I'll tell you how I know the niggers will see
each other again inside of two weeks?here in this house?and _prove_ how
I know it?will you go to Mr. Lothrop's and stay four days?"

"Four days!" she says; "I'll stay a year!"

"All right," I says, "I don't want nothing more out of _you_ than just
your word?I druther have it than another man's kiss-the-Bible."  She
smiled and reddened up very sweet, and I says, "If you don't mind it,
I'll shut the door?and bolt it."

Then I come back and set down again, and says:

"Don't you holler.  Just set still and take it like a man.  I got to
tell the truth, and you want to brace up, Miss Mary, because it's a
bad kind, and going to be hard to take, but there ain't no help for
it.  These uncles of yourn ain't no uncles at all; they're a couple of
frauds?regular dead-beats.  There, now we're over the worst of it, you
can stand the rest middling easy."

It jolted her up like everything, of course; but I was over the shoal
water now, so I went right along, her eyes a-blazing higher and higher
all the time, and told her every blame thing, from where we first struck
that young fool going up to the steamboat, clear through to where she
flung herself on to the king's breast at the front door and he kissed
her sixteen or seventeen times?and then up she jumps, with her face
afire like sunset, and says:

"The brute!  Come, don't waste a minute?not a _second_?we'll have them
tarred and feathered, and flung in the river!"

Says I:

"Cert'nly.  But do you mean _before_ you go to Mr. Lothrop's, or?"

"Oh," she says, "what am I _thinking_ about!" she says, and set right
down again.  "Don't mind what I said?please don't?you _won't,_ now,
_will_ you?" Laying her silky hand on mine in that kind of a way that
I said I would die first.  "I never thought, I was so stirred up," she
says; "now go on, and I won't do so any more.  You tell me what to do,
and whatever you say I'll do it."

"Well," I says, "it's a rough gang, them two frauds, and I'm fixed so
I got to travel with them a while longer, whether I want to or not?I
druther not tell you why; and if you was to blow on them this town would
get me out of their claws, and I'd be all right; but there'd be another
person that you don't know about who'd be in big trouble.  Well, we
got to save _him_, hain't we?  Of course.  Well, then, we won't blow on
them."

Saying them words put a good idea in my head.  I see how maybe I could
get me and Jim rid of the frauds; get them jailed here, and then leave.
But I didn't want to run the raft in the daytime without anybody aboard
to answer questions but me; so I didn't want the plan to begin working
till pretty late to-night.  I says:

"Miss Mary Jane, I'll tell you what we'll do, and you won't have to stay