he Tigris." As she spake these words she grasped the
hand of Elfonzo, saying at the same time--"Peace and prosperity
attend you, my hero; be up and doing!" Closing her remarks with this
expression, she walked slowly away, leaving Elfonzo astonished and
amazed. He ventured not to follow or detain her. Here he stood alone,
gazing at the stars; confounded as he was, here he stood.


Yes; there he stood. There seems to be no doubt about that. Nearly half
of this delirious story has now been delivered to the reader. It seems a
pity to reduce the other half to a cold synopsis. Pity! it is more
than a pity, it is a crime; for to synopsize McClintock is to reduce
a sky-flushing conflagration to dull embers, it is to reduce barbaric
splendor to ragged poverty. McClintock never wrote a line that was not
precious; he never wrote one that could be spared; he never framed one
from which a word could be removed without damage. Every sentence that
this master has produced may be likened to a perfect set of teeth,
white, uniform, beautiful. If you pull one, the charm is gone.

Still, it is now necessary to begin to pull, and to keep it up; for lack
of space requires us to synopsize.

We left Elfonzo standing there amazed. At what, we do not know. Not at
the girl's speech. No; we ourselves should have been amazed at it,
of course, for none of us has ever heard anything resembling it; but
Elfonzo was used to speeches made up of noise and vacancy, and could
listen to them with undaunted mind like the "topmost topaz of an ancient
tower"; he was used to making them himself; he--but let it go, it cannot
be guessed out; we shall never know what it was that astonished him. He
stood there awhile; then he said, "Alas! am I now Grief's disappointed
son at last?" He did not stop to examine his mind, and to try to find
out what he probably meant by that, because, for one reason, "a mixture
of ambition and greatness of soul moved upon his young heart," and
started him for the village. He resumed his bench in school, "and
reasonably progressed in his education." His heart was heavy, but
he went into society, and sought surcease of sorrow in its light
distractions. He made himself popular with his violin, "which seemed to
have a thousand chords--more symphonious than the Muses of Apollo, and
more enchanting than the ghost of the Hills." This is obscure, but let
it go.

During this interval Leos did some unencouraged courting, but at last,
"choked by his undertaking," he desisted.

Presently "Elfonzo again wends his way to the stately walls and
new-built village." He goes to the house of his beloved; she opens the
door herself. To my surprise--for Ambulinia's heart had still seemed
free at the time of their last interview--love beamed from the girl's
eyes. One sees that Elfonzo was surprised, too; for when he caught that
light, "a halloo of smothered shouts ran through every vein." A neat
figure--a very neat figure, indeed! Then he kissed her. "The scene was
overwhelming." They went into the parlor. The girl said it was safe,
for her parents were abed, and would never know. Then we have this
fine picture--flung upon the canvas with hardly an effort, as you will
notice.


Advancing toward him, she gave a bright display of her rosy neck, and
from her head the ambrosial locks breathed divine fragrance; her robe
hung waving to his view, while she stood like a goddess confessed before
him.


There is nothing of interest in the couple's interview. Now at this
point the girl invites Elfonzo to a village show, where jealousy is the
motive of the play, for she wants to teach him a wholesome lesson, if he
is a jealous person. But this is a sham, and pretty shallow. McClintock
merely wants a pretext to drag in a plagiarism of his upon a scene or
two in "Othello."

The lovers went to the play. Elfonzo was one of the fiddlers. He and
Ambulinia must not been seen together, lest trouble follow with the
girl's malignant father; we are made to understand that clearly. So the
two sit together in the orchestra, in the midst of the musicians. This
does not seem to be good art. In the first place, the girl would be in
the way, for orchestras are always packed closely together, and there
is no room to spare for people's girls; in the next place, one cannot
conceal a girl in an orchestra without everybody taking notice of it.
There can be no doubt, it seems to me, that this is bad art.

Leos is present. Of course, one of the first things that catches his eye
is the maddening spectacle of Ambulinia "leaning upon Elfonzo's chair."
This poor girl does not seem to understand even the rudiments of
concealment. But she is "in her seventeenth," as the author phrases it,
and that is her justification.

Leos meditates, constructs a plan--with personal violence as a basis,
of course. It was their way down there. It is a good plain plan, without
any imagination in it. He will go out and stand at the front door, and
when these two come out he will "arrest Ambulinia from the hands of the
insolent Elfonzo," and thus make for himself a "more prosperous field of
immortality than ever was decreed