ed who told you that I drank your poison.
It was spilt upon the ground, like my Lord's blood;
You came too late.

GUIDO

Sweet, there is nothing there:
These things are only unreal shadows.

DUCHESS

Death,
Why do you tarry, get to the upper chamber;
The cold meats of my husband's funeral feast
Are set for you; this is a wedding feast.
You are out of place, sir; and, besides, 'tis summer.
We do not need these heavy fires now,
You scorch us.
Oh, I am burned up,
Can you do nothing?  Water, give me water,
Or else more poison.  No:  I feel no pain -
Is it not curious I should feel no pain? -
And Death has gone away, I am glad of that.
I thought he meant to part us.  Tell me, Guido,
Are you not sorry that you ever saw me?

GUIDO

I swear I would not have lived otherwise.
Why, in this dull and common world of ours
Men have died looking for such moments as this
And have not found them.

DUCHESS

Then you are not sorry?
How strange that seems.

GUIDO

What, Beatrice, have I not
Stood face to face with beauty?  That is enough
For one man's life.  Why, love, I could be merry;
I have been often sadder at a feast,
But who were sad at such a feast as this
When Love and Death are both our cup-bearers?
We love and die together.

DUCHESS

Oh, I have been
Guilty beyond all women, and indeed
Beyond all women punished.  Do you think -
No, that could not be--Oh, do you think that love
Can wipe the bloody stain from off my hands,
Pour balm into my wounds, heal up my hurts,
And wash my scarlet sins as white as snow? -
For I have sinned.

GUIDO

They do not sin at all
Who sin for love.

DUCHESS

No, I have sinned, and yet
Perchance my sin will be forgiven me.
I have loved much

[They kiss each other now for the first time in this Act, when
suddenly the DUCHESS leaps up in the dreadful spasm of death, tears
in agony at her dress, and finally, with face twisted and distorted
with pain, falls back dead in a chair.  GUIDO seizing her dagger
from her belt, kills himself; and, as he falls across her knees,
clutches at the cloak which is on the back of the chair, and throws
it entirely over her.  There is a little pause.  Then down the
passage comes the tramp of Soldiers; the door is opened, and the
LORD JUSTICE, the Headsman, and the Guard enter and see this figure
shrouded in black, and GUIDO lying dead across her.  The LORD
JUSTICE rushes forward and drags the cloak off the DUCHESS, whose
face is now the marble image of peace, the sign of God's
forgiveness.]

Tableau

F