 of Gallery C, in which I was confined, so I saw him constantly. I
was struck by the singular kindness and humanity of the way in which he
spoke to me and to the other prisoners. Kind words are much in prison,
and a pleasant "Good morning" or "Good evening" will make one as happy
as one can be in solitary confinement. He was always gentle and
considerate. I happen to know another case in which he showed great
kindness to one of the prisoners, and I have no hesitation in mentioning
it. One of the most horrible things in prison is the badness of the
sanitary arrangements. No prisoner is allowed under any circumstances to
leave his cell after half-past five p.m. If, consequently, he is
suffering from diarrhoea, he has to use his cell as a latrine, and
pass the night in a most fetid and unwholesome atmosphere. Some days
before my release Martin was going the rounds at half-past seven with
one of the senior warders for the purpose of collecting the oakum and
tools of the prisoners. A man just convicted, and suffering from
violent diarrhoea in consequence of the food, as is always the case,
asked this senior warder to allow him to empty the slops in his cell on
account of the horrible odour of the cell and the possibility of illness
again in the night. The senior warder refused absolutely; it was against
the rules. The man, as far as he was concerned, had to pass the night in
this dreadful condition. Martin, however, rather than see this wretched
man in such a loathsome predicament, said he would empty the man's slops
himself, and did so. A warder emptying a prisoner's slops is, of course,
against the rules, but Martin did this act of kindness to the man out of
the simple humanity of his nature, and the man was naturally most
grateful.

As regards the children, a great deal has been talked and written lately
about the contaminating influence of prison on young children. What is
said is quite true. A child is utterly contaminated by prison life. But
the contaminating influence is not that of the prisoners. It is that of
the whole prison system--of the governor, the chaplain, the warders, the
lonely cell, the isolation, the revolting food, the rules of the Prison
Commissioners, the mode of discipline as it is termed, of the life.
Every care is taken to isolate a child from the sight even of all
prisoners over sixteen years of age. Children sit behind a curtain in
chapel, and are sent to take exercise in small sunless yards--sometimes
a stone-yard, sometimes a yard at the back of the mills--rather than
that they should see the elder prisoners at exercise. But the only
really humanising influence in prison is the influence of the prisoners.
Their cheerfulness under terrible circumstances, their sympathy for each
other, their humility, their gentleness, their pleasant smiles of
greeting when they meet each other, their complete acquiescence in their
punishments, are all quite wonderful, and I myself learnt many sound
lessons from them. I am not proposing that the children should not sit
behind a curtain in chapel, or that they should take exercise in a
corner of the common yard. I am merely pointing out that the bad
influence on children is not, and could never be, that of the prisoners,
but is, and will always remain, that of the prison system itself. There
is not a single man in Reading Gaol that would not gladly have done the
three children's punishment for them. When I saw them last it was on the
Tuesday following their conviction. I was taking exercise at half-past
eleven with about twelve other men, as the three children passed near
us, in charge of a warder, from the damp, dreary stone-yard in which
they had been at their exercise. I saw the greatest pity and sympathy in
the eyes of my companions as they looked at them. Prisoners are, as a
class, extremely kind and sympathetic to each other. Suffering and the
community of suffering makes people kind, and day after day as I tramped
the yard I used to feel with pleasure and comfort what Carlyle calls
somewhere "the silent rhythmic charm of human companionship." In this as
in all other things, philanthropists and people of that kind are astray.
It is not the prisoners who need reformation. It is the prisons.

Of course no child under fourteen years of age should be sent to prison
at all. It is an absurdity, and, like many absurdities, of absolutely
tragic results. If, however, they are to be sent to prison, during the
daytime they should be in a workshop or schoolroom with a warder. At
night they should sleep in a dormitory, with a night-warder to look
after them. They should be allowed exercise for at least three hours a
day. The dark, badly-ventilated, ill-smelling prison cells are dreadful
for a child, dreadful indeed for anyone. One is always breathing bad air
in prison. The food given to children should consist of tea and
bread-and-butter and soup. Prison soup is very good and wholesome. A
resolution of the House of Commons could settle the treatment of
children in half an hour. I hope you will use your influence to have
this done. The way that children are treated at present 