Transcribed from the 1916 Methuen and Co. edition by David Price,
email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk




THE DUCHESS OF PADUA




THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY


Simone Gesso, Duke of Padua
Beatrice, his Wife
Andreas Pollajuolo, Cardinal of Padua
Maffio Petrucci,  }
Jeppo Vitellozzo, } Gentlemen of the Duke's Household
Taddeo Bardi,     }
Guido Ferranti, a Young Man
Ascanio Cristofano, his Friend
Count Moranzone, an Old Man
Bernardo Cavalcanti, Lord Justice of Padua
Hugo, the Headsman
Lucy, a Tire woman

Servants, Citizens, Soldiers, Monks, Falconers with their hawks and
dogs, etc.

Place:  Padua
Time:  The latter half of the Sixteenth Century
Style of Architecture:   Italian, Gothic and Romanesque.

THE SCENES OF THE PLAY


ACT I.  The Market Place of Padua (25 minutes).
ACT II.  Room in the Duke's Palace (36 minutes).
ACT III.  Corridor in the Duke's Palace (29 minutes).
ACT IV.  The Hall of Justice (31 minutes).
ACT V.  The Dungeon (25 minutes).



ACT I



SCENE

The Market Place of Padua at noon; in the background is the great
Cathedral of Padua; the architecture is Romanesque, and wrought in
black and white marbles; a flight of marble steps leads up to the
Cathedral door; at the foot of the steps are two large stone lions;
the houses on each aide of the stage have coloured awnings from
their windows, and are flanked by stone arcades; on the right of
the stage is the public fountain, with a triton in green bronze
blowing from a conch; around the fountain is a stone seat; the bell
of the Cathedral is ringing, and the citizens, men, women and
children, are passing into the Cathedral.

[Enter GUIDO FERRANTI and ASCANIO CRISTOFANO.]

ASCANIO

Now by my life, Guido, I will go no farther; for if I walk another
step I will have no life left to swear by; this wild-goose errand
of yours!

[Sits down on the step of the fountain.]

GUIDO

I think it must be here.  [Goes up to passer-by and doffs his cap.]
Pray, sir, is this the market place, and that the church of Santa
Croce?  [Citizen bows.]  I thank you, sir.

ASCANIO

Well?

GUIDO

Ay! it is here.

ASCANIO

I would it were somewhere else, for I see no wine-shop.

GUIDO

[Taking a letter from his pocket and reading it.]  'The hour noon;
the city, Padua; the place, the market; and the day, Saint Philip's
Day.'

ASCANIO

And what of the man, how shall we know him?

GUIDO

[reading still]  'I will wear a violet cloak with a silver falcon
broidered on the shoulder.'  A brave attire, Ascanio.

ASCANIO

I'd sooner have my leathern jerkin.  And you think he will tell you
of your father?

GUIDO

Why, yes!  It is a month ago now, you remember; I was in the
vineyard, just at the corner nearest the road, where the goats used
to get in, a man rode up and asked me was my name Guido, and gave
me this letter, signed 'Your Father's Friend,' bidding me be here
to-day if I would know the secret of my birth, and telling me how
to recognise the writer!  I had always thought old Pedro was my
uncle, but he told me that he was not, but that I had been left a
child in his charge by some one he had never since seen.

ASCANIO

And you don't know who your father is?

GUIDO

No.

ASCANIO

No recollection of him even?

GUIDO

None, Ascanio, none.

ASCANIO

[laughing]  Then he could never have boxed your ears so often as my
father did mine.

GUIDO

[smiling]  I am sure you never deserved it.

ASCANIO

Never; and that made it worse.  I hadn't the consciousness of guilt
to buoy me up.  What hour did you say he fixed?

GUIDO

Noon.  [Clock in the Cathedral strikes.]

ASCANIO

It is that now, and your man has not come.  I don't believe in him,
Guido.  I think it is some wench who has set her eye at you; and,
as I have followed you from Perugia to Padua, I swear you shall
follow me to the nearest tavern.  [Rises.]  By the great gods of
eating, Guido, I am as hungry as a widow is for a husband, as tired
as a young maid is of good advice, and as dry as a monk's sermon.
Come, Guido, you stand there looking at nothing, like the fool who
tried to look into his own mind; your man will not come.

GUIDO

Well, I suppose you are right.  Ah!  [Just as he is leaving the
stage with ASCANIO, enter LORD MORANZONE in a violet cloak, with a
silver falcon broidered on the shoulder; he passes across to the
Cathedral, and just as he is going in GUIDO runs up and touches
him.]

MORANZONE

Guido Ferranti, thou hast come in time.

GUIDO

What!  Does my father live?

MORANZONE

Ay! lives in thee.
Thou art the same in mould and lineament,
Carriage and form, and outward semblances;
I trust thou art in noble mind the same.

GUIDO

Oh, tell me of my father; I have lived
But for this moment.

MORANZONE

We must be alone.

GUIDO

This is my dearest friend, who out of love
Has followed me to Padua; as two brothers,
There is no secret which we do not share.

MORANZONE

There is one secret which ye shall not share;
Bid him go hence.

GUIDO

[to ASCANIO]  Come back within the hour.
He does not know that nothing in this world
Can dim the perfect mirror of our love.
Within the hour come.

ASCANIO

Speak not to him,
There is a dreadful terror in his look.

GUI