becomes worse. When ordinary punishments are
exhausted, the doctor reports the case to the justices. The result is
flogging. Of course the flogging is not done with a cat-of-nine-tails.
It is what is called birching. The instrument is a rod; but the result
on the wretched half-witted man may be imagined.

His number is, or was, A. 2. 11. I also managed to find out his name. It
is Prince. Something should be done at once for him. He is a soldier,
and his sentence is one of court-martial. The term is six months. Three
have yet to run.

May I ask you to use your influence to have this case examined into, and
to see that the lunatic prisoner is properly treated?

No report by the Medical Commissioners is of any avail. It is not to be
trusted. The medical inspectors do not seem to understand the difference
between idiocy and lunacy--between the entire absence of a function or
organ and the diseases of a function or organ. This man A. 2. 11, will,
I have no doubt, be able to tell his name, the nature of his offence,
the day of the month, the date of the beginning and expiration of his
sentence, and answer any ordinary simple question; but that his mind is
diseased admits of no doubt. At present it is a horrible duel between
himself and the doctor. The doctor is fighting for a theory. The man is
fighting for his life. I am anxious that the man should win. But let the
whole case be examined into by experts who understand brain-disease, and
by people of humane feelings who have still some common-sense and some
pity. There is no reason that the sentimentalist should be asked to
interfere. He always does harm. He culminates at his starting point. His
end, as his origin, is an emotion.

The case is a special instance of the cruelty inseparable from a stupid
system, for the present Governor of Reading is a man of gentle and
humane character, greatly liked and respected by all the prisoners. He
was appointed in July last, and though he cannot alter the rules of the
prison system, he has altered the spirit in which they used to be
carried out under his predecessor. He is very popular with the prisoners
and with the warders. Indeed he has quite elevated the whole tone of the
prison-life. Upon the other hand, the system is of course beyond his
reach as far as altering its rules is concerned. I have no doubt that he
sees daily much of what he knows to be unjust, stupid, and cruel. But
his hands are tied. Of course I have no knowledge of his real views of
the case of A. 2. 11, nor, indeed, of any of his views on our present
system. I merely judge him by the complete change he brought about in
Reading Prison. Under his predecessor the system was carried out with
the greatest harshness and stupidity.--I remain, Sir, your obedient
servant,

                                                            OSCAR WILDE.

France, May 27th, 1897.




    Transcriber's notes:

    The following is a list of changes made to the original.
    The first line is the original line, the second the corrected one.

    whom Warder Martin gave the buscuits, the child was
    whom Warder Martin gave the biscuits, the child was

    sight of him at the corner of the stoneyard, walking in
    sight of him at the corner of the stone-yard, walking in



F