  As I pass through the
corridor do not let them try and lift my mask.

FIRST SOLDIER

You need not be afraid, madam.

DUCHESS

I have a particular reason for wishing my face not to be seen.

FIRST SOLDIER

Madam, with this ring you can go in and out as you please; it is
the Duchess's own ring.

DUCHESS

Leave us.  [The Soldier turns to go out.]  A moment, sir.  For what
hour is . . .

FIRST SOLDIER

At twelve o'clock, madam, we have orders to lead him out; but I
dare say he won't wait for us; he's more like to take a drink out
of that poison yonder.  Men are afraid of the headsman.

DUCHESS

Is that poison?

FIRST SOLDIER

Ay, madam, and very sure poison too.

DUCHESS

You may go, sir.

FIRST SOLDIER

By Saint James, a pretty hand!  I wonder who she is.  Some woman
who loved him, perhaps.  [Exit.]

DUCHESS

[taking her mark off]  At last!
He can escape now in this cloak and vizard,
We are of a height almost:  they will not know him;
As for myself what matter?
So that he does not curse me as he goes,
I care but little:  I wonder will he curse me.
He has the right.  It is eleven now;
They will not come till twelve.
[Goes over to the table.]
So this is poison.
Is it not strange that in this liquor here
There lies the key to all philosophies?
[Takes the cup up.]
It smells of poppies.  I remember well
That, when I was a child in Sicily,
I took the scarlet poppies from the corn,
And made a little wreath, and my grave uncle,
Don John of Naples, laughed:  I did not know
That they had power to stay the springs of life,
To make the pulse cease beating, and to chill
The blood in its own vessels, till men come
And with a hook hale the poor body out,
And throw it in a ditch:  the body, ay, -
What of the soul? that goes to heaven or hell.
Where will mine go?
[Takes the torch from the wall, and goes over to the bed.]
How peacefully here he sleeps,
Like a young schoolboy tired out with play:
I would that I could sleep so peacefully,
But I have dreams.  [Bending over him.]
Poor boy:  what if I kissed him?
No, no, my lips would burn him like a fire.
He has had enough of Love.  Still that white neck
Will 'scape the headsman:  I have seen to that:
He will get hence from Padua to-night,
And that is well.  You are very wise, Lord Justices,
And yet you are not half so wise as I am,
And that is well.
O God! how I have loved you,
And what a bloody flower did Love bear!
[Comes back to the table.]
What if I drank these juices, and so ceased?
Were it not better than to wait till Death
Come to my bed with all his serving men,
Remorse, disease, old age, and misery?
I wonder does one suffer much:  I think
That I am very young to die like this,
But so it must be.  Why, why should I die?
He will escape to-night, and so his blood
Will not be on my head.  No, I must die;
I have been guilty, therefore I must die;
He loves me not, and therefore I must die:
I would die happier if he would kiss me,
But he will not do that.  I did not know him.
I thought he meant to sell me to the Judge;
That is not strange; we women never know
Our lovers till they leave us.
[Bell begins to toll]
Thou vile bell,
That like a bloodhound from thy brazen throat
Call'st for this man's life, cease! thou shalt not get it.
He stirs--I must be quick:   [Takes up cup.]
O Love, Love, Love,
I did not think that I would pledge thee thus!
[Drinks poison, and sets the cup down on the table behind her:  the
noise wakens GUIDO, who starts up, and does not see what she has
done.  There is silence for a minute, each looking at the other.]
I do not come to ask your pardon now,
Seeing I know I stand beyond all pardon;
Enough of that:  I have already, sir,
Confessed my sin to the Lords Justices;
They would not listen to me:  and some said
I did invent a tale to save your life;
You have trafficked with me; others said
That women played with pity as with men;
Others that grief for my slain Lord and husband
Had robbed me of my wits:  they would not hear me,
And, when I sware it on the holy book,
They bade the doctor cure me.  They are ten,
Ten against one, and they possess your life.
They call me Duchess here in Padua.
I do not know, sir; if I be the Duchess,
I wrote your pardon, and they would not take it;
They call it treason, say I taught them that;
Maybe I did.  Within an hour, Guido,
They will be here, and drag you from the cell,
And bind your hands behind your back, and bid you
Kneel at the block:  I am before them there;
Here is the signet ring of Padua,
'Twill bring you safely through the men on guard;
There is my cloak and vizard; they have orders
Not to be curious:  when you pass the gate
Turn to the left, and at the second bridge
You will find horses waiting:  by to-morrow
You will be at Venice, safe.  [A pause.]
Do you not speak?
Will you not even curse me ere you go? -
You have the right.  [A pause.]
You do not understand
There lies between you and the headsman's axe
Hardly so much sand in the hour-glass
As a child's palm could carry:  here is the ring:
I have washed my hand:  there is no blood upon it:
You need not fear.  Will you not take the ring?

GUIDO

[takes ring and kisses it]
Ay! gl