inding itself in
a lonely and unfamiliar cell, waited on by strange faces, and ordered
about and punished by the representatives of a system that it cannot
understand, becomes an immediate prey to the first and most prominent
emotion produced by modern prison life--the emotion of terror. The
terror of a child in prison is quite limitless. I remember once in
Reading, as I was going out to exercise, seeing in the dimly-lit cell,
right opposite my own, a small boy. Two warders, not unkindly men, were
talking to him, with some sternness apparently, or perhaps giving him
some useful advice about his conduct. One was in the cell with him, the
other was standing outside. The child's face was like a white wedge of
sheer terror. There was in his eyes the mute appeal of a hunted animal.
The next morning I heard him at breakfast-time crying, and calling to be
let out. His cry was for his parents. From time to time I could hear the
deep voice of the warder on duty warning him to keep quiet. Yet he was
not even convicted of whatever little offence he had been charged with.
He was simply on remand. That I knew by his wearing his own clothes,
which seemed neat enough. He was, however, wearing prison socks and
shoes. This showed that he was a very poor boy, whose own shoes, if he
had any, were in a bad state. Justices and magistrates, an entirely
ignorant class as a rule, often remand children for a week, and then
perhaps remit whatever sentence they are entitled to pass. They call
this "not sending a child to prison." It is, of course, a stupid view on
their part. To a little child, whether he is in prison on remand or
after conviction, is a subtlety of social position he cannot comprehend.
To him the horrible thing is to be there at all. In the eyes of humanity
it should be a horrible thing for him to be there at all.

This terror that seizes and dominates the child, as it seizes the grown
man also, is of course intensified beyond power of expression by the
solitary cellular system of our prisons. Every child is confined to its
cell for twenty-three hours out of the twenty-four. This is the
appalling thing. To shut up a child in a dimly-lit cell for twenty-three
hours out of the twenty-four is an example of the cruelty of stupidity.
If an individual, parent or guardian, did this to a child he would be
severely punished. The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
would take the matter up at once. There would be on all hands the utmost
detestation of whomsoever had been guilty of such cruelty. A heavy
sentence would undoubtedly follow conviction. But our own actual society
does worse itself, and to the child to be so treated by a strange
abstract force, of whose claims it has no cognizance, is much worse than
it would be to receive the same treatment from its father or mother, or
someone it knew. The inhuman treatment of a child is always inhuman, by
whomsoever it is inflicted. But inhuman treatment by Society is to the
child the more terrible because there is no appeal. A parent or guardian
can be moved, and let out the child from the dark lonely room in which
it is confined. But a warder cannot. Most warders are very fond of
children. But the system prohibits them from rendering the child any
assistance. Should they do so, as Warder Martin did, they are dismissed.

The second thing from which a child suffers in prison is hunger. The
food that is given to it consists of a piece of usually badly-baked
prison bread and a tin of water for breakfast at half-past seven. At
twelve o'clock it gets dinner, composed of a tin of coarse Indian meal
stirabout, and at half-past five it gets a piece of dry bread and a tin
of water for its supper. This diet in the case of a strong grown man is
always productive of illness of some kind, chiefly of course
diarrhoea, with its attendant weakness. In fact in a big prison
astringent medicines are served out regularly by the warders as a matter
of course. In the case of a child, the child is, as a rule, incapable of
eating the food at all. Anyone who knows anything about children knows
how easily a child's digestion is upset by a fit of crying, or trouble
and mental distress of any kind. A child who has been crying all day
long, and perhaps half the night, in a lonely dimly-lit cell, and is
preyed upon by terror, simply cannot eat food of this coarse, horrible
kind. In the case of the little child to whom Warder Martin gave the
biscuits, the child was crying with hunger on Tuesday morning, and
utterly unable to eat the bread and water served to it for its
breakfast. Martin went out after the breakfasts had been served and
bought the few sweet biscuits for the child rather than see it starving.
It was a beautiful action on his part, and was so recognised by the
child, who, utterly unconscious of the regulation of the Prison Board,
told one of the senior warders how kind this junior warder had been to
him. The result was, of course, a report and a dismissal.

I know Martin extremely well, and I was under his charge for the last
seven weeks of my imprisonment. On his appointment at Reading he had
charge